risotto alla milanese
S E R V E S  6  A S  A  F I R S T  C O U R S E
 1  medium onion, very finely 
chopped 
 8  Tbs. unsalted butter 
 1  lb. (2 cups) arborio, vialone 
nano, or carnaroli rice, or 
other medium- or short-grain 
Italian rice 
 1/2   cup dry white wine 
 6  cups hot homemade or lower-
salt chicken broth; more as 
needed 
 1/2   tsp. saffron threads
 1  cup finely grated Parmigiano-
Reggiano 
   Kosher salt and freshly ground 
black pepperWhile it would be unfair to say that this is the risotto from which all others are 
derived, its simplicity is hard to match. If you’re uneasy about risotto, this is a 
good recipe to start with because it’s simple and requires so few ingredients. 
1. In a heavy-based saucepan that’s large enough to hold the rice with plenty 
of room left over, cook the onion in 2 Tbs. of the butter over medium heat 
until it’s translucent and fragrant, about 5 minutes.
2. Stir in the rice and cook it over medium heat for about 3 minutes. Add the 
wine, 2 cups of the broth, and the saffron. Turn the heat to high until the broth 
comes to a simmer and then adjust the heat to maintain a steady simmer.
3. Cook until most of the liquid has been absorbed, stirring every minute or 
two. Add another cup of broth and keep cooking, stirring, and adding broth 
until the rice is al dente but not raw or grainy in the middle.
4. When the rice is ready, stir in the cheese. Add a little more broth to give the 
risotto the consistency you like (from fairly tight to almost soupy). Off the 
heat, stir in the remaining 6 Tbs. butter. Season with salt and pepper and ladle 
onto heated plates or bowls. —James Peterson
PER SERVING: 510 CALORIES  |  13G PROTEIN  |  63G CA RB  |  20G TOT AL FA T  |  12G SA T FA T  |   
6G MONO FA T  |  1G POL Y FA T  |  50MG CHOL  |  490MG  SODIUM  |  1G FIBER
P O L E N TA  &  R I S O T T O   189three steps to creamy risotto
Start by cooking the onion in butter until it’s 
soft and translucent, but not browned.Stir every minute or two as you add the 
wine and broth (there’s no need to stir 
constantly).
Add the cheese and remaining butter when 
the rice is al dente.Grating some of the corn to a 
mash and blending it with the 
rice makes a creamy foundation 
for this corn-studded risotto. 
1. Heat the chicken broth in a 
medium saucepan over medium- 
high heat until very hot. Add the 
corn and cook until the kernels 
are just tender, 3 to 4 minutes. 
Transfer the corn to a cutting 
board and reduce the heat to keep the broth hot but not simmering. 
2. Once the corn is cool enough to handle, slice the kernels off four of the 
pieces. Grate the kernels from the remaining two pieces using the large holes 
of a box grater. Discard the cobs. 
3. Heat the olive oil and garlic in a large, heavy saucepan or medium Dutch 
oven over medium-high heat until the garlic is fragrant, about 2 minutes. Add 
the arugula and toss with tongs until wilted, about 1 minute. Season with a 
generous pinch of salt and pepper. Transfer the arugula to a cutting board, let 
it cool slightly, and then coarsely chop it. Wipe the pan clean.
4. Melt the butter in the cleaned pan over medium heat. Add the leek and a 
generous pinch of salt and cook, stirring occasionally, until softened, about  
2 minutes. Add the sausage, breaking it apart with a fork or spoon into 
crumbles, and cook until no longer pink, 2 to 3 minutes. Add the rice and stir 
until the grains are well coated with fat and the edges become translucent, 
1 to 2 minutes. Pour in the wine and stir until it’s absorbed, about 30 seconds. 
Stir in the grated corn. 
5. Ladle enough of the hot broth into the pan to barely cover the rice, about 
11/2 cups. Bring to a boil and then adjust the heat to maintain a lively simmer. 
Cook, stirring frequently, until the broth is mostly absorbed, 2 to 3 minutes. 
Continue adding broth in 1/2-cup increments, stirring occasionally and letting 
each addition be absorbed before adding the next.
6. After about 20 minutes, the rice should be just cooked but still fairly firm. 
At this point, add the whole corn kernels, chopped arugula, and another  
1/2 cup broth. Continue to simmer and stir until the corn is warmed through  
and the rice is just tender to the tooth, an additional 1 to 3 minutes. Stir in an-
other splash of broth if the risotto seems too thick. Remove the pot from the 
heat and stir in the cheese. Season with salt and pepper to taste. Serve  
the risotto immediately with a sprinkling of cheese and parsley, if using.  
—Mary Ellen Driscoll
PER SERVING: 530 CALORIES  |  18G PROTEIN  |  73G CAR B  |  19G TOT AL FA T  |  8G SA T FA T  |   
7G MONO FA T  |  2.5G POL Y FA T  |  25MG CHOL  |  610 MG SODIUM  |  3G FIBERrisotto with corn, spicy sausage 
& wilted arugula 
S E R V E S  4  T O  6
 6  cups lower-salt chicken broth; 
more as needed
 3  medium ears fresh corn, 
shucked and halved crosswise
 2  Tbs. extra-virgin olive oil
 2  medium cloves garlic, minced
 3  packed cups trimmed arugula
   Kosher salt and freshly ground 
black pepper
 3  Tbs. unsalted butter
 1  medium leek (white and light 
green parts only), finely diced 
(about 3/4 cup)
 1/4  lb. hot Italian pork sausage, 
casings removed and broken 
into chunks
 2  cups arborio or carnaroli rice 
 1/2   cup dry white wine (like Pinot 
Grigio)
 1/2   cup freshly grated pecorino 
romano; more for serving
 2   Tbs. finely chopped fresh flat-
leaf parsley (optional)
190  P O L E N TA  &  R I S O T T O