 10   S TA R T E R S ,  S A L A D S  &  S O U P Sgrilled goat cheese crostini with  
a tangle of marinated roasted peppers
S E R V E S  8
 3  medium bell peppers (1 red,  
1 orange, and 1 yellow)
 3  Tbs. balsamic vinegar
 2  Tbs. extra-virgin olive oil
 11/2  tsp. fresh thyme
 1/4  tsp. kosher salt
  Freshly ground black pepper
   Grilled Garlic Bread (recipe on 
the facing page)
 1  41/2- to 51/2-oz. container of 
soft, spreadable goat cheese 
(such as Chavrie ®), at room 
temperatureGoat cheese speckled with fresh thyme is the perfect creamy counterpoint 
to the sweet, tangy roasted peppers. Serve these crostini as an appetizer or 
paired with a simple green salad for a light lunch.
1. Prepare a medium-high grill fire. Grill the bell peppers, turning occasionally, 
until the skin chars all over, 15 to 20 minutes. Put the charred peppers in a 
heatproof bowl, cover with plastic wrap, and let sit until cool enough to handle, 
about 30 minutes.
2. Meanwhile, in a large bowl, combine the balsamic vinegar, olive oil, 1/2 tsp. of 
thyme, the salt, and about 5 grinds of pepper. Mix well.
3. Remove the pepper skins and seeds and cut the peppers into thin strips. 
Add the peppers to the vinegar mixture and let them marinate for at least  
1 hour and up to 3 days. (Refrigerate if making more than a few hours ahead 
and return to room temperature before assembling the crostini.)
4. Spread each slice of the grilled garlic bread with a generous layer of 
goat cheese, sprinkle with some of the remaining thyme, and top with a  
tangle of the peppers and a small grind of black pepper. Serve immediately.  
—Eliz abeth Karmel
PER SERVING: 280 CALORIES  |  8G PROTEIN  |  30G CARB  |  14G TOT AL FA T  |  3.5G SA T FA T  |  
8G MONO FA T  |  1G POL Y FA T  |  5MG CHOL  |  540MG SODIUM  |  2G FIBERgrilled garlic bread
S E R V E S  8
 8  3/4- to 1-inch-thick slices 
crusty, artisan-style bread, 
like ciabatta
 1/4  cup extra-virgin olive oil, for 
brushing
 1  to 2 large cloves garlic, peeled 
and halved
  Sea salt or kosher saltPatience is the key to great grilled bread. Don’t be tempted to use high heat  
or the bread will burn. Be sure to grill the bread, covered, over direct medium-
low heat.
Prepare a medium-low charcoal or gas grill fire. Brush both sides of the bread 
with the oil and grill, covered, turning once, until golden and marked on both 
sides, 1 to 3 minutes per side. Off the heat but while the bread is still hot, lightly 
rub one side of each bread slice with the cut sides of the garlic—heat and fric-
tion from the bread will cause the garlic to “melt” into the bread. Sprinkle with 
the salt and serve.
S TA R T E R S ,  S A L A D S  &  S O U P S   11Also known are chèvre and Montrachet, the term 
goat cheese is a catchall for any cheese made 
from goat’s milk. For most Americans, goat 
cheese calls to mind soft, white logs of fresh 
cheese with a mild but tangy flavor.
Unripened goat cheese is delicious crumbled 
over a green salad, mixed into a stuffing for 
boneless chicken breast, and tossed with pasta, 
to name just a few possibilities. It can be lovely by 
itself, too, with crisp, raw vegetables or on a piece 
of crusty bread. Unless specified, most recipes 
calling for goat cheese refer to this type of goat 
cheese, of which Montrachet may be the most 
famous version.
Goat cheese, however, can come in a whole 
slew of shapes (bars, medallion, pyramids) and 
sizes, with textures that run from moist and 
creamy to dense and firm when aged. Their 
flavors also can run the gamut from mild to quite 
complex and farmy. Different cheeses may also 
be dusted with spices, topped with herbs, or 
covered in ash.How to choose
Much of the fresh goat cheese available in 
supermarkets is commercially made and comes 
sealed in plastic; your only way of knowing which 
you like is by trying different brands. When 
choosing among goat cheeses, avoid those that 
are too hard and dried out or have rinds that are 
slimy, both signs of a strong goaty flavor. Mottled 
blue mold is fine on all but the youngest fresh 
goat cheese.
How to prep
If serving goat cheese as part of a cheese course, 
let it warm up a bit at room temperature before 
serving for best flavor. T o make crumbling fresh 
goat cheese easier, freeze it for 5 minutes first.
How to store
Store goat cheese well wrapped, preferably in 
waxed paper or aluminum foil or in a plastic 
container with a lid, in your refrigerator where it 
will continue to ripen, becoming more complex in 
flavor. (The cheese is past its prime when it 
becomes hard and too goaty.) Plastic wrap 
does not allow any air to circulate around the 
cheese, which is fine if you plan to store it for just 
a few days.All about Goat Cheese 12   S TA R T E R S ,  S A L A D S  &  S O U P Sfrico (cheese crisps)
M A K E S  8  C R I S P S
 1  cup finely shredded or grated 
Parmigiano-Reggiano (you can 
also try Asiago, aged Cheddar, 
aged Gouda, Manchego, or 
another hard cheese) 
 1/2  tsp. lightly toasted crushed 
cumin seeds or fennel seeds 
(or another spice if you like)These cheese crisps can be 
made in a nonstick sauté pan 
one by one, but it’s more efficient 
to make them in batches on bak-
ing sheets in the oven. The goal 
is to let the cheese melt to create 
a texture that’s lacy but that 
still holds together, so be sure to 
sprinkle the cheese lightly. 
1. Heat the oven to 375°F . Cover 
2 large baking sheets with parch-
ment. Combine the cheese and 
spice. Sprinkle 2 Tbs. of the mixture on the parchment to form a 4- to 41/2-inch 
round. Spread the cheese evenly with a fork. Repeat with the rest of the mix-
ture, leaving 2 inches between each round. 
2. Bake each sheet (one at a time) until the crisps just begin to color, 6 to 
8 minutes. Don’t let them fully brown or the cheese will be bitter. Use a spatula 
to lift the edges of the crisps and loosen them from the pan. Remove the 
crisps and immediately lay them over a rolling pin or the side of a bottle to give 
them a curved shape. Or for a flat frico, just transfer to paper towels. When 
cooled, store the crisps in an airtight container for up to 2 days. —John Ash
PER SERVING: 70 CALORIES  |  5G PROTEIN  |  1G CARB  |  5G TOT AL FA T  |  3G SA T FA T  |
1G MONO FA T  |  0G POL Y FA T  |  15MG CHOL  |  45MG SODIUM  |  0G FIBER
