M A I N  C O U R S E S   157Crisp chicken cutlets are topped 
with two cheeses and a super-
fast tomato sauce in this easy 
take on an Italian restaurant 
favorite. 
1. Position a rack in the center of 
the oven and heat the oven to 
425°F . Line a large rimmed baking 
sheet with foil and lightly coat the 
foil with nonstick cooking spray.
2. Mix the flour and 1/4 tsp. pepper 
in a wide, shallow dish. In a second wide, shallow dish, lightly beat the eggs with 
1 Tbs. water. Put the panko in a third wide, shallow dish. Season the chicken 
with salt and coat each piece in the flour, tapping off the excess, then the egg, 
and then the panko, pressing the panko to help it adhere.
3. Heat 2 Tbs. of the oil in a 12-inch nonstick skillet over medium-high heat. 
Working in two batches, cook the chicken, flipping once, until the crumbs are 
golden and the chicken is almost cooked through, 1 to 2 minutes per side, add-
ing 2 Tbs. more oil for the second batch. Transfer the chicken to the prepared 
baking sheet. Sprinkle the chicken with the Parmigiano and then top evenly 
with the mozzarella. Bake until the cheese is melted and the chicken is cooked 
through, 5 to 7 minutes.
4. Meanwhile, wipe the skillet clean and set over medium heat. Pour in the 
remaining 1 Tbs. oil and then add the onion and garlic. Cook, stirring often, until 
the onion is tender and lightly browned, 3 to 4 minutes. Stir in the tomatoes 
and 1/4 tsp. salt. Simmer, stirring occasionally, until thickened, 4 to 5 minutes. 
Remove from the heat and stir in the basil. Season to taste with salt and pep-
per. Serve the sauce over the chicken.  —Melissa Gaman
PER SERVING: 480 CALORIES  |  33G PROTEIN  |  24G CA RB  |  28G TOT AL FA T  |  8G SA T FA T  |   
16G MONO FA T  |  3G POL Y FA T  |  160MG CHOL  |  610 MG SODIUM  |  3G FIBER
quick chicken parmesan
S E R V E S  4
   Nonstick cooking spray
 21/4   oz. (1/2 cup) unbleached all-
purpose flour
   Freshly ground black pepper
 2  large eggs
 11/2   cups panko breadcrumbs
 4  thin-sliced boneless, skinless 
chicken breast cutlets (about 
14 oz.)
  Kosher salt
 5  Tbs. olive oil
 1/4   cup freshly grated Parmigiano- 
Reggiano (use the small holes 
on a box grater)
 4  oz. fresh mozzarella, thinly 
sliced
 1  small yellow onion, chopped
 2  medium cloves garlic, finely 
chopped
 1  14.5-oz. can crushed tomatoes 
(preferably Muir Glen ® fire-
roasted crushed tomatoes)
 1/4   cup packed fresh basil, 
chopped (1/2 oz.)chicken piccata with  
fried capers
SE R V E S  2 O R  3
 2  Tbs. drained nonpareil capers
 2  Tbs. olive oil
 1  lb. thin chicken breast cutlets 
   Kosher salt and freshly ground 
black pepper
 1  clove garlic, finely chopped
 1/2   cup homemade chicken stock 
or lower-salt canned chicken 
broth
 2  Tbs. freshly squeezed lemon 
juice
 1/2  tsp. honey
 2  Tbs. cold unsalted butter, cut 
into 3 pieces
 1  Tbs. chopped fresh flat-leaf 
parsleySlice your own chicken cutlets 
by starting with breasts. Remove 
the tenderloin from the bottom, 
cut the breast in half crosswise, 
and then horizontally slice the 
thick breast piece completely 
in half.
1. Rinse the capers and pat them 
dry with paper towels. Heat the 
oil in a 10-inch nonstick skillet 
over medium-high heat. When the oil is hot, add the capers and stir-fry until 
most of them open like flowers and become crisp and slightly brown, 30 to 
60 seconds. Remove the skillet from the heat and transfer the capers to a dry 
paper towel with a soupspoon, tilting each spoonful against the side of the 
pan to let excess oil drain back into the pan.
2. Season the chicken cutlets with salt and pepper. Heat the skillet over
medium high and sauté the cutlets in batches until golden brown and just 
cooked through, 1 to 2 minutes per side. Transfer the cooked chicken to a 
plate and cover to keep warm. 
3. With the pan still over medium-high heat, add the garlic and sauté until 
lightly golden, about 30 seconds. Add the broth and scrape the pan bottom 
with a wooden spoon to dissolve any browned bits. Boil the broth until it’s 
reduced by about half. Stir in the lemon juice and honey. Off the heat, add the 
butter and swirl the pan until the butter melts and thickens the sauce. Stir in 
the parsley and about half of the capers. Adjust the salt and pepper, if needed. 
Spoon the sauce over the chicken, scatter the remaining capers over it, and 
serve. —Fine Cooking editors
PER SERVING: 420 CALORIES  |  32G PROTEIN  |  3G CAR B  |  31G TOT AL FA T  |  10G SA T FA T  | 
15G MONO FA T  |  4G POL Y FA T  |  115MG CHOL  |  430 MG SODIUM  |  0G FIBER
158  M A I N  C O U R S E Schicken saltimbocca
SE R V E S  4
 4  boneless, skinless chicken 
breast halves (about 11/2 lb. 
total)
   Kosher salt and freshly ground 
black pepper
 3  Tbs. extra-virgin olive oil
 2  Tbs. unsalted butter
 24  fresh sage leaves
 4  very thin slices prosciutto, cut 
crosswise into thin strips
 1 / 3   cup dry white wine (like Pinot 
Grigio)
 1  cup homemade chicken stock 
or lower-salt chicken brothThis classic dish calls for pounding chicken breasts thin so they cook quickly, 
then topping them with prosciutto, sage, and a wine sauce.
1. If the tenders are still attached to the chicken breasts, remove them and 
reserve for another use. T rim any excess fat from t he chicken. Cover the breasts 
with plastic wrap and pound with a smooth meat mallet (or a heavy sauté pan) 
until they’re evenly 1/2 inch thick. Season with 1/2 tsp. salt and 1/4 tsp. pepper.
2. Heat the olive oil and 1 Tbs. of the butter in a large sauté pan over medium-
high heat. When the butter is foaming, set two of the chicken breasts in the 
pan and sear without moving until golden brown, 3 to 4 minutes. Flip the 
chicken and cook until firm to the touch and cooked through, about another 
3 minutes. Transfer to a platter and repeat with the other two breasts. Add 
the sage leaves and prosciutto to the pan and cook until crisp and slightly 
browned, about 1 minute. Transfer to a plate lined with paper towels.
3. Pour the fat from the pan, set the pan over high heat, and add the wine. 
Boil, scraping up any browned bits from the bottom of the pan with a wooden 
spoon, until the wine is almost completely reduced. Add the chicken broth 
and boil until it’s reduced by half, about 3 minutes. Return the chicken to the 
pan, stir in the remaining 1 Tbs. butter, and cook for 1 minute to heat through. 
Serve the chicken with the sauce, sprinkled with the sage and prosciutto.  
—T asha DeSerio
PER SERVING: 380 CALORIES  |  39G PROTEIN  |  1G CAR B  |  23G TOT AL FA T  |  7G SA T FA T  |   
12G MONO FA T  |  2G POL Y FA T  |  125MG CHOL  |  670 MG SODIUM  |  1G FIBER
M A I N  C O U R S E S   159