38  P I Z Z A ,  C A L Z O N E  &  S T R O M B O L Ipickled mushrooms with garlic and herbs
M A K E S  A B O U T  1  Q U A R T
 6  cups mixed fresh mushrooms 
(such as maitake, enoki, oys-
ter, cremini, shiitake, and royal 
trumpet), washed, trimmed, 
and if large, halved or sepa-
rated into smaller sections
 4  sprigs fresh thyme
 1  cup white-wine vinegar
 3  Tbs. olive oil
 1  Tbs. sugar
 10  whole peppercorns
 1  dried bay leaf
 1  large clove garlic, slivered
 1  small dried hot red chile 
(about 2 inches long)
  Kosher salt Use as many varieties of mushrooms as you can find for the best flavor and 
texture. In addition to the pizza above, try these with any egg or cheese dish.
1. Bring an 8-quart pot of water to a boil. Immerse a quart-size canning jar, lid, 
and band in the water and boil for 10 minutes to sterilize. With tongs, transfer 
to a clean dishtowel to drain. 
2. Boil the mushrooms in the water until tender, 10 minutes. Drain and pack 
them into the jar along with the thyme sprigs.
3. In a small saucepan, bring the vinegar, oil, sugar, pep-
percorns, bay leaf, garlic, chile, 1 Tbs. salt, and 1/2    cup 
water to a boil over medium heat. Pour the mixture 
over the mushrooms until it reaches the top of the 
jar. Screw on the lid, cool to room temperature, and 
refrigerate for 3 days before using. The mushrooms 
will keep in the refrigerator for at least 2 weeks.
PER 1/2    CUP: 20 CALORIES  |  1G PROTEIN  |  3G CARB  |
0.5G TOT AL FA T  |  0G SA T FA T  |  0G MONO FA T  |
0G POL Y FA T  |  0MG CHOL  |  45MG SODIUM  |  1G FIBERpickled mushroom and 
gruyère pizza
M A K E S  T W O  1 0 - I N C H  P I Z Z A S
 1  lb. pizza dough, at room 
temperature
   Unbleached all-purpose flour 
for rolling
   Olive oil, for brushing
 1 1/2      cups Pickled Mushrooms 
with Garlic and Herbs (recipe 
below), drained
 1 1/2    cups grated Gruyère 
 2  Tbs. chopped fresh flat-leaf 
parsleyAn unexpectedly delicious 
combination of nutty Gruyère 
and tangy pickled mushrooms 
makes this simple pizza a knock-
out. Served with a green salad, 
it makes a quick vegetarian 
dinner for two.
1. Position a rack in the lowest 
part of the oven and heat the 
oven to 500°F .
2. Divide the pizza dough into two balls. On a lightly floured surface, roll one of 
the balls out to a 10-inch circle. Put the dough on a pizza pan or baking sheet 
and brush with olive oil. Bake until the dough is just beginning to color, 8 to 
10 minutes. 
3. Meanwhile, chop the mushrooms into bite-size pieces. Remove the pizza 
from the oven and sprinkle half of the Gruyère, mushrooms, and parsley over 
the pizza, leaving a 1/2   -inch border. Continue to bake until the edges of the 
pizza are brown and the cheese is thoroughly melted, 5 to 7 minutes. 
4. Repeat with the other half of the dough and toppings. —Eugenia Bone
PER PIZZA: 1,040 CALORIES  |  46G PROTEIN  |  115G CARB  |  42G TOT AL FA T  |  16G SA T FA T  |  
14G MONO FA T  |  2G POL Y FA T  |  90MG CHOL  |  1,850MG SODIUM  |  5G FIBER
fresh spinach and pancetta pizza  
S E R V E S  4  A S  A N  A P P E T I Z E R
FOR THE PIZZA
 1/4   lb. sliced pancetta or smoked 
bacon (about five 1/4-inch-
thick slices), cut in 1/2-inch 
pieces
 1  ball of pizza dough, refriger-
ated for at least 8 hours
   Olive oil, for brushing the 
dough
 1/4  cup thinly sliced scallions 
(white and light green parts)
 4  oz. coarsely grated Gruyère
FOR THE SALAD TOPPING
 2  tsp. red-wine vinegar
 1/2  tsp. Dijon mustard
 2  Tbs. olive oil
   Kosher salt and freshly ground 
black pepper
 4  oz. loose baby spinach or  
1/2 bunch tender young 
spinach, stemmed if needed, 
washed, and spun dry
 1  hard-cooked egg, choppedIf you want to omit the meat in this recipe, increase the cheese just a bit for 
more flavor.
MAKE THE PIZZA
Put a baking stone on the upper middle rack of the oven and heat the oven to 
475°F . In a small skillet over medium heat, brown the pancetta. Drain on paper 
towels and set aside. On a heavily floured surface, flatten the dough ball. Roll 
the dough into a 12-inch round, lifting and stretching from underneath with 
the back of your hands. (If the dough resists, let it rest for a few minutes and 
then resume rolling.) The outside edges should be about 11/4 inches thick, 
the center a bit thinner. Transfer the dough to a floured pizza paddle or the 
floured back of a baking sheet. Brush the dough with the olive oil and sprinkle 
the scallions evenly to within 1/2 inch of the edge. Sprinkle on the cheese and 
the pancetta. Transfer the pizza onto the baking stone in the oven with a quick 
jerk of the paddle. Check the pizza after 2 or 3 minutes and deflate any giant 
bubbles if necessary. 
MAKE THE TOPPING
1. While the pizza bakes, whisk the vinegar, mustard, and olive oil in a medium 
bowl; season with salt and pepper. 
2. When the edges of the crust are lightly browned and the cheese is bubbling, 
10 to 12 minutes, return the pizza to the paddle or  transfer it to a cutting board. 
T oss the spinach with the vinaigrette and pile it on the pizza. Sprinkle with the 
chopped egg, slice with a chef’s knife, and serve immediately. —Alan Tangren
PER SERVING: 430 CALORIES  |  18G PROTEIN  |  38G CARB  |  23G TOT AL FA T  |  8G SA T FA T  |  
11G MONO FA T  |  2G POL Y FA T  |  90MG CHOL  |  830MG SODIUM  |  2G FIBER
P I Z Z A ,  C A L Z O N E  &  S T R O M B O L I   39