breaded veal scaloppine with tricolor salad
SE R V E S  4
FOR  THE  SA LAD
 3  Tbs. extra-virgin olive oil
 2  Tbs. balsamic vinegar
   Kosher salt and freshly ground 
black pepper
 2  heads endive, sliced crosswise
   Small bunch arugula, washed, 
dried, and tough stems 
trimmed
   Small head radicchio, torn into 
bite-size pieces 
FOR THE VEAL
 1   lb. top round veal or 4 veal 
cutlets
 1/2   cup unbleached all-purpose 
flour
   Kosher salt and freshly ground  
white pepper
 11/2   cups homemade dry  
breadcrumbs
 2   tsp. chopped fresh flat-leaf 
parsley
 2  large eggs, beaten with a pinch 
of salt
 3  Tbs. vegetable oil
 4  Tbs. unsalted butter
 1  lemon, quartered
 This recipe works best with high-quality veal, but it’s also excellent with turkey 
breast or pork. If you can, try to use breadcrumbs from a stale loaf of good 
peasant bread. Serve the veal right on top of the salad.
MAKE THE SALAD
Whisk the oil into the vinegar in a slow, steady stream; season with salt and 
pepper. Just before serving, toss with the endive, arugula, and radicchio.  
Arrange on dinner plates.
PREPARE THE VEAL
1. If using top round, slice it 1/4 inch thick. Pound the slices or cutlets to 1 / 8 inch 
thick. Combine the flour, 1 tsp. salt, and 1/2 tsp. white pepper on a large plate. 
Combine the breadcrumbs and parsley on a large plate and set this closest to 
the stove. Put the beaten eggs in a shallow soup bowl next to it, then the flour 
mixture, and then the veal. 
2. Heat a sauté pan over medium heat. Dry the veal with a paper towel and 
lightly season it with salt. When the pan is hot, add the oil and butter. While the 
butter is melting, dredge the first piece of veal in the flour, dip it in the egg, and 
then dip in the breadcrumbs, pressing the crumbs into the meat to coat it. Put 
the meat in the pan. Working quickly, coat the next piece of meat and put it 
in the pan, adding only as much meat as will fit without touching or crowding. 
When the underside of each piece is golden brown (about 2 minutes), turn 
and cook the second side until golden, about 1 minute, and serve atop the 
salad with a squeeze of lemon. —Josh Eisen
PER SERVING: 620 CALORIES  |  38G PROTEIN  |  37G CA RB  |  35G TOT AL FA T  |  10G SA T FA T  |   
18G MONO FA T  |  5G POL Y FA T  |  200MG CHOL  |  100 MG SODIUM  |  3G FIBER
166  M A I N  C O U R S E Spork braciole with ragù
SE R V E S  6 T O  8
 1  cup fresh breadcrumbs
 6  Tbs. finely chopped fresh flat-
leaf parsley
 3  Tbs. freshly grated Parmigiano- 
Reggiano 
 5  cloves garlic (1 finely chopped, 
4 lightly crushed)
 2  Tbs. pine nuts
 2  Tbs. golden raisins, soaked 
in warm water for 15 minutes 
and drained
 1/2   cup chopped pancetta (about 
2 oz.)
   Kosher salt and freshly ground 
black pepper
 21/2   lb. boneless pork loin roast, 
cut into 16 slices and pounded 
1 / 8 inch thick
 8  thin slices prosciutto (about  
2 oz.)
 3  Tbs. extra-virgin olive oil
 1  small onion, finely chopped
 1/2   cup dry white wine
 2   28-oz. cans crushed tomatoes, 
with juice
 1   Tbs. finely chopped fresh mintThe sauce that the meat cooks in 
is delicious on pasta. 
1. In a bowl, toss the breadcrumbs 
with 3 Tbs. of the parsley, the 
cheese, chopped garlic, pine nuts, 
raisins, and half the pancetta. 
Season with salt and pepper. 
2. Lay the pork slices in front of 
you, season very lightly with salt 
and pepper, and lay half a slice of 
prosciutto on top of each. Put a 
heaping tablespoon of stuffing on one end of a pork slice and roll up the meat, 
tucking in the sides. Skewer with a toothpick to secure. Repeat with the rest of 
the slices.
3. In a Dutch oven or a flameproof earthenware casserole, heat the olive oil, 
remaining pancetta, and crushed garlic cloves over medium-high heat. Cook 
until the pancetta turns translucent, about 4 minutes, stirring frequently so 
the garlic doesn’t burn. Add the onion and pork rolls and cook, turning with 
tongs, until the rolls turn color on all sides, about 8 minutes. Pour in the wine 
and cook until more than half is evaporated, about 5 minutes. Reduce the heat 
to low, add the tomatoes, salt, and pepper, and sim mer until the meat is tender, 
40 to 45 minutes. Remove the rolls, turn the heat to high, and reduce the 
sauce until thickened, about 7 minutes. Turn the heat off, add the mint and 
remaining parsley, stir, and return the rolls to th e sauce. Let steep for 5 minutes 
before serving. T aste and adjust seasonings. Serve the rolls with a little sauce; 
be sure to remind diners about the toothpicks. —Clifford Wright
PER SERVING: 420 CALORIES  |  39G PROTEIN  |  24G CA RB  |  19G TOT AL FA T  |  6G SA T FA T  | 
10G MONO FA T  |  2G POL Y FA T  |  95MG CHOL  |  1,09 0 MG SODIUM  |  5G FIBER
M A I N  C O U R S E S   167pork scaloppine with prosciutto,  
sage & caramelized lemon
SE R V E S  2 O R  3
 2  to 3 lemons
 1  small pork tenderloin  
(about 3/4 lb.) 
   Kosher salt and freshly  
ground pepper
 18  medium or 12 large fresh  
sage leaves
 6  slices prosciutto, preferably 
imported
 3  Tbs. unbleached all-purpose 
flour
 3  Tbs. vegetable oil
 2  Tbs. unsalted butter
 1 / 3   cup sweet vermouth; more  
to taste
 1/2   cup homemade chicken stock 
or lower-salt chicken brothCaramelizing the lemon slices softens their acidity and makes them edible, 
peel and all. Eating them is optional, but we highly recommend it. The lemons’ 
tangy, slightly bitter flavor is a bright complement to the rich, salty prosciutto 
in this recipe. 
1. Trim a thick slice off each end of one of the lemons, and then cut 1 / 8-inch-
thick slices from the lemon center—you need 12 slices, so you may need a 
second lemon. Juice the ends and enough of the remaining lemons to obtain 
1/4 cup juice. Set the slices and juice aside.
2. Heat the oven to 200°F . Set a heatproof serving platter and a baking sheet 
lined with a paper towel in the oven. 
3. Trim and cut the pork tenderloin into 6 thick medallions of roughly equal 
weight. Place a piece of plastic wrap on the countertop. Put one pork piece on 
top of the plastic with one cut side up and cover with a second piece of plastic 
wrap. With a meat mallet (or heavy skillet), pound the meat into 1/4-inch-thick 
scaloppine. Repeat with the other pieces. Sprinkle both sides lightly with salt 
and pepper. T op each scaloppine with 2 or 3 sage leaves and then a prosciutto 
slice, folding any of the overlap underneath the pork scaloppine. 
4. Put the flour in a shallow bowl. Dredge the scaloppine in flour, shaking off 
the excess. 
5. In a 12-inch skillet, heat 11/2 Tbs. of the oil over medium-high heat. Cook three 
of the scaloppine, prosciutto side down first, until lightly browned and just 
cooked through, 11/2 to 2 minutes per side. Transfer the scaloppine to the bak-
ing sheet in the oven. Add the remaining 11/2 Tbs. oil and repeat with the three 
remaining scaloppine. Transfer them to the baking sheet and keep warm in the 
oven. Remove the pan from the heat and pour off any remaining oil.
6. Add 1 Tbs. of the butter and let it melt. Add the lemon slices to the pan in a 
single layer. Return to medium heat and cook the lemon slices until lightly 
browned on one side, 2 to 4 minutes. Turn the lemon slices and add 2 Tbs. of 
the vermouth to the pan. Continue to cook until the vermouth cooks down to 
a glaze, 2 to 3 minutes. (The lemon slices will resemble bicycle wheels, with 
much of the flesh going into the sauce.) Transfer the lemon slices to the 
scaloppine in the oven, placing 2 slices on each one.
7. Pour the remaining (approximately 3 Tbs.) vermouth into the pan, bring to a 
boil over medium-high heat, and deglaze the pan by scraping up the browned 
bits from the bottom. Add the chicken broth and lemon juice and boil until 
reduced to 1/4 cup, 3 to 5 minutes. Remove from the heat and stir in the 
remaining 1 Tbs. butter. T aste the sauce for seasoning; if it’s too acidic add a 
touch more vermouth to the pan.
8. Transfer the scaloppine to the serving platter, spoon the sauce over, and 
serve immediately. —Jennifer McLagan
PER SERVING: 460 CALORIES  |  33G PROTEIN  |  18G CA RB  |  29G TOT AL FA T  |  9G SA T FA T  | 
10G MONO FA T  |  7G POL Y FA T  |  105MG CHOL  |  1,0 90MG SODIUM  |  4G FIBER
168  M A I N  C O U R S E S