44  P I Z Z A ,  C A L Z O N E  &  S T R O M B O L Igrilled mushroom, onion & fontina pizzas
S E R V E S  4
 1  recipe Pizza Dough (recipe on 
the facing page)
    U nbleached, all-purpose flour, 
for rolling
 11/2  cups Fresh Tomato Sauce 
(recipe p. 35)
 2 tsp. chopped fresh basil 
 4  large portobello mushroom 
caps, gills and stems removed
 3  Tbs. extra-virgin olive oil; 
more for drizzling
    Kosher or sea salt and freshly 
ground black pepper
 1  large red onion, sliced into 
1/2-inch-thick disks
 3  cups grated Fontina Val 
d’Aosta (91/2 oz.)
 2  medium yellow, purple, or 
orange tomatoes, sliced 1/4 inch 
thick
 2 cups baby arugula
 1/2   cup loosely packed small 
fresh basil leaves
  Balsamic vinegar, for drizzlingTo make the pizzas even faster, use store-bought pizza dough. 
1. Prepare a hot charcoal or gas grill fire. If using charcoal, spread the hot coals 
across half of the charcoal grate and leave the other half clear. If using gas, 
turn one of the burners to low to create a cooler zone. Scrub the grill grate with 
a wire brush and then wipe the grate with a paper towel dipped in oil. 
2. While the grill is heating, shape the pizza dough. Put the dough on a lightly 
floured work surface. Knead it briefly to expel any air bubbles and then cut it 
into quarters. Cover 3 pieces with plastic wrap to prevent them from drying 
out. Using a rolling pin or your hands, flatten the dough into a 10-inch circle 
about 1/4 inch thick. If at any point the dough resists rolling, set it aside to rest 
for a few minutes while you work another piece of dough.
3. Lightly dust a baking sheet with flour. Using your fingers, transfer the rolled-
out dough to the baking sheet and cover with parchment. Repeat with the 
remaining dough, shingling the dough between lightly dusted sheets of parch-
ment. Cover the baking sheet with plastic and refrigerate until ready to grill.
4. Bring the tomato sauce to a simmer in a small pot over medium heat. Re-
move it from the heat and stir in the chopped basil. Keep warm.
5. When the grill is hot, brush the mushroom caps with 2 Tbs. of the olive oil 
and sprinkle with salt and pepper. Slide toothpicks or skewers horizontally 
into the onion disks to hold them together. Brush the disks with the remaining 
1 Tbs. olive oil and season with salt and pepper. Arrange the mushrooms and 
onions on the hot side of the grill and cook until grill marks have formed, about 
4 minutes. Flip and grill until they are well marked and tender, 3 to 4 minutes 
more for mushrooms, 1 minute more for onions (if the onions threaten to char, 
move them to the cool side of the grill). Let cool briefly, remove the skewers 
from the onions, and then coarsely chop the mushrooms and onions.
6. Have the pizza dough, sauce, toppings, and a clean baking sheet near the 
grill. With your fingers, transfer a dough round onto the grate over the hot 
part of the grill. Grill just until marks form on the bottom and the dough has 
begun to crisp and puff, about 2 minutes. (If you are able to fit 2 pizzas on the 
hot part of the grill at the same time, grill 2 at a time.) Using tongs and a wide 
spatula, move the crust, cooked side up, to the empty baking sheet. Spoon 
a layer of tomato sauce over the surface of the pizza. Scatter 3/4 cup Fontina 
over the sauce, and then top with a quarter of the mushrooms and onions. 
7. Using tongs and a wide spatula, slide the pizza, raw side down, onto the 
cooler side of the grill. Cover and grill until the bottom is browned and crisped 
and the cheese has melted, 3 to 5 minutes. Using the tongs and spatula, trans-
fer the pizza to a large dinner plate. T op with about 4 tomato slices and lightly 
season them with salt. Scatter about one-quarter of the arugula and basil over 
the pizza and drizzle with a little olive oil and balsamic vinegar. 
8. Grill the remaining 3 pizzas in the same way, dividing the toppings evenly 
among them. Serve as soon as all of the pizzas have been grilled. (If you want 
the cooked pizzas to remain hot, put them in a 200°F oven as you finish them, 
but wait until just before serving to top with the tomatoes, arugula, and basil.) 
—Domenica Marchetti
PER SERVING: 950 CALORIES  |  38G PROTEIN  |  90G CARB  |  50G TOT AL FA T  |  19G SA T FA T  |  
24G MONO FA T  |  4.5G POL Y FA T  |  95MG CHOL  |  1,940MG SODIUM  |  8G FIBERP I Z Z A ,  C A L Z O N E  &  S T R O M B O L I   45
pizza dough
Y I E L D S  A B O U T  1 1/2  L B .  D O U G H
 121/2  oz. (23/4 cups) bread flour; 
more as needed
 11/4  oz. (1/4 cup) semolina flour; 
more for dusting
 2  tsp. instant yeast
 11/2  tsp. fine sea salt
 3   Tbs. extra-virgin olive oil; 
more for the bowl1. Combine the bread flour, semolina, yeast, and sea salt in a food processor 
fitted with the metal blade. Pour 1 cup of cool water through the feed tube, 
pulsing as you pour. With the motor running, pour the oil through the feed 
tube and process until the dough comes together, about 1 minute.
2. Turn the dough out onto a clean work surface (flour the surface if the dough 
is tacky). Knead the dough until it’s smooth and elastic, about 2 minutes, and 
then gather it into a ball. Grease a large bowl with olive oil and put the dough in 
the bowl, turning to coat it with oil. Cover the bowl tightly with plastic wrap and 
leave in a warm place until the dough has doubled in size, 11/2 to 2 hours.