pollo agrodolce
SE R V E S  4
 4  whole chick en legs, cut into 
thighs and drumsticks (31/2 to 
4 lb. total), patted dry
   Kosher salt and freshly ground 
black pepper
   Flour, for dredging 
 1 / 3   cup olive oil; plus a drizzle of 
your best extra-virgin olive oil 
to finish the dish
 1  small onion, cut into small dice
 1  small rib celery, cut into small 
dice
 1  small carrot, cut into small 
dice
 1  Tbs. granulated sugar
 2  Tbs. good-quality white-wine 
vinegar (you might need a 
bit more, depending on its 
strength)
 1/2   cup dry white wine
 1  cup homemade chicken stock 
or lower-salt chicken broth
 1  bay leaf
 1/4   cup golden raisins
 1/4   cup pine nuts, lightly toasted
 2   Tbs. capers, preferably salt-
packed Sicilian capers, soaked 
in cool water and rinsed
   A few large sprigs fresh mint, 
leaves roughly chopped 
(about 2 Tbs.); plus a few 
sprigs for garnishIn Sicily, this sweet-and-sour dish 
would be served with a vegetable 
like artichokes or sautéed greens, 
probably after a simple pasta. 
1. Season the chicken pieces with 
salt and pepper and dredge them 
lightly in the flour, tapping off any 
excess. Heat a large sauté pan 
fitted with a lid over medium-high 
heat and add the 1 / 3 cup olive 
oil. When the oil is hot, add the 
chicken pieces (in batches, if 
necessary), browning them very well on both sides. When browned, remove 
the chicken from the pan and set aside. Pour off all but about 3 Tbs. of the fat 
from the pan. 
2. Turn the heat to medium low and add the onion, celery, and carrot. Sauté 
until they’re soft and fragrant, 6 to 7 minutes. Add the sugar and vinegar to the 
pan and let it bubble for about 1 minute. Return the chicken to the pan and 
turn over in the vegetables once or twice to coat. Increase the heat to medium 
and add the wine, letting it boil until almost evaporated. Add the chicken 
broth and bay leaf, cover the pan, and simmer on low heat until the chicken is 
just about tender, 30 to 35 minutes, turning the pieces once or twice during 
cooking. Add the raisins, pine nuts, and capers and simmer to blend the 
flavors, about 5 minutes longer. The sauce should be reduced and thickened 
but still pourable. If it looks too dry, add a splash of chicken broth or water. 
T aste for seasoning. It should have a nice balance between sweet and sour but 
not be too aggressive. Discard the bay leaf. Add more salt, pepper, a splash of 
vinegar, or a pinch of sugar to balance the flavors. 
3. Arrange the chicken on a large serving platter. T o the pan, add a drizzle 
off your best extra-virgin olive oil and the chopped mint and mix it into the 
sauce. Pour the sauce over the chicken and garnish with the mint sprigs.  
—Erica DeMane
PER SERVING: 630 CALORIES  |  36G PROTEIN  |  29G CA RB  |  40G TOT AL FA T  |  8G SA T FA T  |   
22G MONO FA T  |  7G POL Y FA T  |  105MG CHOL  |  540 MG SODIUM  |  2G FIBER
M A I N  C O U R S E S   163What Is Agrodolce?
Agrodolce (ah-groh-DOLE-chay)—Italian for “sweet-and-
sour”—is one of the signature flavors of the Sicilian kitchen. 
Most often created by simmering capers, pine nuts, raisins, 
fresh mint, wine vinegar, and sugar with meat, fish, or vegeta-
bles, but there are endless variations. The constant is the 
cooking down of vinegar and sugar until they infuse the meat 
with their sweet and sharp flavor.164  M A I N  C O U R S E Sroasted turkey breast, porchetta style
SE R V E S  7 T O  9
 1  tsp . coriander seeds
 1  tsp. fennel seeds
 1  Tbs. chopped fresh rosemary
 2  tsp. chopped fresh sage
 3  medium cloves garlic
   Kosher salt and freshly ground 
black pepper
 3  Tbs. olive oil
 1  whole skin-on turkey breast  
(5 to 7 lb.), boned, or 2 bone-
less skin-on turkey breast 
halves (2 to 3 lb. each)
 8  1 / 8-inch-thick pancetta slices, 
unrolled into strips, or 8 strips 
thick-cut baconThis centerpiece dish starts with a boned breast (do this yourself or ask the 
butcher to do it for you) or two boneless breast halves. It’s rubbed with a spice 
paste and topped with pancetta for a clever take on porchetta, a traditional 
Italian preparation.
1. In a large mortar, pound the coriander and fennel seeds with a pestle to form 
a coarse powder. Add the rosemary and sage and pound to crush and bruise 
the herbs. Add the garlic and 1 Tbs. salt and pound until a paste begins to form. 
Stir in 2 tsp. pepper and 2 Tbs. of the olive oil and set aside. 
2. Pat the turkey breast dry with a paper towel and lay it skin side down on a 
work surface. Rub half the spice paste over the meat. Turn the turkey over and 
carefully separate the skin from the meat without t earing the skin. Rub the re-
maining spice paste under the skin. Re-form the bre ast and tie with 4 to 6 loops 
of butcher’s twine to make a roll. (If you’re using boneless halves, season the 
two halves, lay them on top of each other skin side out, and tie them together.) 
Wrap in plastic and refrigerate for at least 2 hours and up to 24 hours.M A I N  C O U R S E S   1653. Position a rack in the center of the oven and heat the oven to 350°F .
4. Heat the remaining 1 Tbs. oil in a 12-inch skillet over medium heat. Add 
the turkey breast and cook until golden brown on all sides, about 5 minutes 
total. Transfer the breast seam side down to a roasting pan fitted with a rack. 
Crisscross the pancetta over the top of the breast. Roast until the internal 
temperature reaches 165°F on an instant-read thermometer, 11/4 to 11/2 hours. 
Let the turkey breast rest for 15 to 20 minutes.
5. Remove the pancetta and chop or crumble it. Remove the strings from 
the turkey, slice into 1/4-inch slices, and serve, sprinkled with the pancetta.  
—Bruce Aidells
PER SERVING: 480 CALORIES  |  56G PROTEIN  |  1G CAR B  |  26G TOT AL FA T  |  7G SA T FA T  |   
11G MONO FA T  |  4.5G POL Y FA T  |  155MG CHOL  |  9 60MG SODIUM  |  0G FIBER
Remove the rib cage and breastbone by 
cutting between the ribs and the meat at 
one edge of the breast. Scrape the knife 
as close to the rib bones as possible, and 
as the bones come free, pull back on them 
to make cutting between the bones and 
meat easier. Continue until you reach the 
breastbone. 
Scrape the point of the knife along the 
breast-bone and use your thumb to free 
the meat. Be careful not to cut through 
the meat and skin at the ridge of the 
breastbone (the meat is very thin here). Once you bone half the breast, scrape 
along the other side of the breastbone and 
along the ribs until the entire rib cage and 
breast bone can be freed in one piece. 
how to bone a turkey breast and thighs
Removing bones isn’t hard, once you know the techniques. Just follow these steps:
BONING THE THIGH Put a thigh skin side 
down on a cutting board. Using a boning 
knife, begin cutting between the thigh 
bone and the meat as close to the bone as 
possible. 
Continue to work your knife around the 
bone and thigh joint, making sure that no 
gristle or cartilage remains attached to the 
meat, until the bone is cut completely free. BONING THE BREAST Lay the breast 
skin side down on a cutting board. If the 
backbone is still attached to the breast, 
cut it away with poultry shears. Next, locate 
the wishbone in the V-shaped neck end 
of the breast. Using a boning knife, scrape 
the meat away from the bone and remove 
the bone. 