PASTA  139pushed aside into the soft dough, kneading it gently with the heels of your 
hands as you incorporate the additional flour and the dough becomes firmer. 
Keep the board clean and dust it with flour as you knead to prevent the 
dough from sticking. After kneading for 8 to 10 minutes, the dough should be 
smooth, elastic, and just a little sticky.
3. Press one finger into the center of the dough; if it comes out barely moist, 
the dough is ready to be rolled out. If the dough is still quite sticky, add a little 
more flour and knead it for 2 to 3 minutes longer until soft and pliable.
4. Wrap the dough in plastic wrap and let it rest at room temperature for 
20 to 30 minutes.
rOLL THe PASTA 
1. Unwrap the dough and knead it for a minute or two. Set the rollers of a pasta 
machine at their widest. Cut off a piece of dough about the size of a small 
lemon and flatten it with the palm of your hand to about 1/2 inch thick. As you 
work, keep the rest of the dough wrapped in plastic. Dust the piece of dough 
lightly with flour and run it through the machine. Fold the rolled dough in half 
and run it through the machine again, pressing it with your fingertips into the 
rollers. Repeat this step 4 or 5 times, dusting the dough with flour if it becomes 
sticky, until smooth and elastic.
2. Change the rollers to the next setting down and roll out the dough without 
folding. Repeat rolling the sheet of dough (without folding) through the pasta 
machine, decreasing the settings until the pasta is 1 / 8 inch thick. On a floured 
wooden board, cut the dough into 11/2-inch squares. Keep the squares covered 
with plastic as you shape the tortellini.
SHAPe THe TOrTeLLINI 
1. Put about 1 / 8 tsp. of the filling in the center of a pasta square. Bring one 
corner over the filling toward the corner diagonally opposite and fold into a 
triangle. Press around the filling to seal. Bend the tortellino around your finger 
with one corner slightly overlapping the other and press to seal. The tortellino 
will look like a crown. Transfer to a large rimmed baking sheet lined with a clean 
kitchen towel. Arrange the tortellini in a single layer without letting them touch 
(you’ll need 2 or 3 baking sheets) and cover with another clean towel.
2. Repeat the filling and shaping with the remaining pasta and filling.
COOK AND Serve THe TOrTeLLINI eN BrODO 
You can make as many or as few servings as you like. For each serving, you’ll 
need 11/2 cups of broth and 14 tortellini. Bring the broth to a boil in a large pot 
over medium heat. Gently drop the tortellini into the pot. Cook until they rise 
to the surface and are tender but still firm to the bite, 2 to 3 minutes for fresh, 
4 to 5 minutes for frozen. Remove the pot from the heat. Ladle the tortellini 
and broth into serving bowls, sprinkle with grated Parmigiano, and serve 
immediately. —Biba Caggiano 
PER SERVING: 240 CALORIES  |  18G PROTEIN  |  22G CA RB  |  9G TOT AL FA T  |  3.5G SA T FA T  |   
3.5G MONO FA T  |  1G POL Y FA T  |  95MG CHOL  |  580 MG SODIUM  |  1G FIBERThe broth may be 
refrigerated for  
3 days or frozen for 
up to 3 months. The 
filling may be made 
and refrigerated for 
up to 2 days or frozen 
for up to 1 month. The 
uncooked tortellini 
can be refrigerated, 
loosely covered 
with a towel, for up 
to 1 day. Or freeze 
the tortellini on the 
baking sheets, then 
transfer to freezer 
bags and freeze for  
up to 3 months.Make AheadLemon juice and zest work wonders as flavor enhancers to  
just about anything. Here are some tips for getting the most  
from your lemons. 
•  The juiciest lemons tend to be small to 
medium size with smooth-textured, 
thin skins. 
•  If your recipe calls for zest and juice, 
always zest a lemon before juicing. 
Thick-skinned lemons are the easiest 
to zest.
•  T o get the most juice, roll the lemon 
back and forth on your counter and 
then microwave for 30 seconds. Juice 
it using a reamer for the maximum 
amount of juice.
herbed farfalle and grilled chicken 
S e r v e S  6
  Coarse salt
 12  oz. dried farfalle
 10  Tbs. extra-virgin olive oil
 2  large boneless, skinless 
chicken breasts (about 1 lb. 
total)
  Freshly ground black pepper
 7  Tbs. freshly squeezed lemon 
juice
 2  cloves garlic, minced
 1  tsp. ground cumin
 1/4   cup packed fresh flat-leaf 
parsley leaves
 1  cup packed fresh cilantro 
sprigs
 1/2   cup lightly packed fresh basil 
leaves, torn
 1/4   cup packed fresh mint leaves, 
torn
 1  cup packed fresh arugula 
(tough stems removed)
 6  lemon wedgesLarge pieces of herb leaves add a refreshing rustic quality to this pasta. 
1. In a large pot, bring 6 quarts water and 2 Tbs. sa lt to a boil. Add the farfalle 
and cook until al dente, 10 to 12 minutes. Drain th e pasta and toss it immedi-
ately with 1 Tbs. of the olive oil. Let the pasta c ool completely in the refrigerator. 
2. Heat a cast-iron ridged grill pan or an outdoor grill. Brush the chicken 
breasts with 1 Tbs. of the olive oil. Grill the chicken breasts until golden on one 
side, 4 to 5 minutes. Turn the breasts, season with salt and pepper, and 
continue to grill until golden and cooked through, another 6 to 8 minutes. Let 
the chicken cool and then cut it on the diagonal into thin strips. Set aside. 
3. In a large bowl, whisk together the remaining 8 Tbs. olive oil with the lemon 
juice, garlic, and cumin. Season to taste with salt and pepper. Add the farfalle, 
sliced chicken, parsley, cilantro, basil, mint, and arugula and toss together well. 
Season to taste with salt and pepper.
4. Put the salad into a serving bowl and serve immediately, garnished with the 
lemon wedges. —Joanne Weir
PER SERVING: 500 CALORIES  |  25G PROTEIN  |  43G CA RB  |  25G TOT AL FA T  |  3G SA T FA T  |   
17G MONO FA T  |  3G POL Y FA T  |  45MG CHOL  |  250M G SODIUM  |  3G FIBER
140  P A S TATips for Juicing a Lemon