penne with sausage, chard & 
pine nuts
S e r v e S  2
 1  Tbs. olive oil; more as needed
 5  oz. sweet Italian sausage 
(about 2 sausage links),  
casings removed, meat 
crumbled
 1  small red onion, chopped
 1  small bunch red, green, or 
yellow Swiss chard, tougher 
stems removed and leaves 
roughly chopped
 2  small cloves garlic, minced
   Pinch of crushed red pepper 
flakes
   Salt and freshly ground black 
pepper 
 1/2  cup chicken or vegetable stock 
or dry white wine 
 8  oz. dried penne or fusilli
 1  Tbs. balsamic vinegar; more to 
taste
 1/4  cup pine nuts, lightly toasted
 1/4  cup grated Parmesan You can vary this recipe by using 
escarole, Savoy cabbage, radic-
chio, or endive in place of the 
chard, and pancetta or smoked 
bacon in place of the sausage.  
1. Bring a large pot of salted water 
to a boil for cooking the pasta. 
Meanwhile, heat the oil in a large 
skillet over medium heat. Add  
the sausage; cook, breaking it up 
and stirring with a wooden spoon, until browned and cooked through, 7 to  
10 minutes. With a slotted spoon, remove the sausage and set aside. If the  
pan seems a bit dry, add enough oil so there’s about 3 Tbs. fat in the pan. 
Return the pan to medium heat, add the onion, and cook until just tender, 3 to 
5 minutes, stirring and scraping up any browned bits with a wooden spoon. 
Add the chard, garlic, and pepper flakes, season with salt and pepper, and toss 
until the chard begins to sizzle, about 1 minute. Add the stock, cover, and 
simmer, stirring occasionally, until the chard is tender, 6 to 8 minutes. 
2. Meanwhile, cook the pasta until just tender. Reserve 1 cup of the pasta 
water and then drain the pasta, leaving drops of water clinging to it. Add the 
pasta and ¼ cup of the cooking water to the skillet, using more of the water if 
needed. Return the sausage to the pan and add the balsamic vinegar. Heat 
gently for a few minutes to let the flavors meld. Add the pine nuts and half of 
the Parmesan, and taste for salt and pepper. Add a bit more of the cooking  
water if the pan seems dry. Serve warm, passing the remaining Parmesan 
cheese at the table.  —Molly Stevens
PER SERVING: 840 CALORIES  |  42G PROTEIN  |  95G CA RB  |  33G TOT AL FA T  |  5G SA T FA T  |   
10G MONO FA T  |  5G POL Y FA T  |  45MG CHOL  |  1,18 0MG SODIUM  |  7G FIBER
P A S TA   101When you’re creating your own pasta dishes, 
here are a few ways to give them more zip once 
you’ve added the pasta to the sauté and let it 
simmer for a minute or two. 
•  Add piquancy with capers, a splash of vinegar, a 
squeeze of lemon, a dash of grappa, or a 
handful or chopped olives or reconstituted 
sun-dried tomatoes.Finishing Touches for Pasta
•  Add texture and substance with crunchy 
toasted nuts or breadcrumbs (known in Italy as 
poor man’s Parmesan).
•  Add richness and heft by stirring in a knob of 
sweet butter, a spoonful or two of crème 
fraîche, a bit of grated Parmesan or other hard 
cheese, or a drizzle of extra-virgin olive oil. 
•  Add fresh color and flavor with a small handful 
of chopped fresh parsley, basil, or chives. gemelli with cauliﬂower,  
scallions & green olives 
S e r v e S  2
 1/2   head cauliflower, cut into large 
florets
 3  to 4 Tbs. extra-virgin olive oil
 1  clove garlic, minced
 3  scallions, white parts finely 
chopped, greens cut into  
1/2-inch pieces 
   Generous pinch of crushed red 
pepper flakes
 6  to 8 anchovy fillets, chopped 
 8  oz. dried gemelli, fusilli, or 
cavatappi
 1/2   cup fresh, slightly coarse 
breadcrumbs, toasted in a 
400°F oven for 3 to 4 minutes, 
until golden
 1/2   cup cracked green olives, 
pitted and coarsely choppedDon’t be afraid of the anchovies 
in this recipe. They melt right 
into the sauce and give it great 
flavor. Substitute broccoli for the 
cauliflower if you like. T oasted 
breadcrumbs add a crunchy 
finishing touch. 
1. Bring a large pot of salted 
water to a boil. Drop the 
cauliflower into the boiling water 
and cook until the florets offer little resistance when pierced with the tip of a 
knife, 3 to 4 minutes. (Don’t let the cauliflower become at all mushy.) With a 
slotted spoon or a skimmer, remove the cauliflower from the pot and drain it. 
Return the water to a boil for cooking the pasta. When the cauliflower is cool 
enough to handle, cut the florets into smaller pieces and set aside. In a large 
skillet, heat 2 Tbs. of the olive oil over medium-low heat. Add the garlic and 
scallion whites and cook until fragrant but not browned, about 5 minutes. Add 
the pepper flakes and anchovies, crushing them with a wooden spoon, and 
cook for another 1 to 2 minutes. Remove the skillet from the heat while you 
cook the pasta. 
2. Just before the pasta is done, return the skillet to medium-high heat and 
add the cauliflower and half of the breadcrumbs. Cook, tossing once or twice, 
until heated through. When the pasta is just tender, reserve 1 cup of pasta 
cooking water and then drain the pasta, leaving drops of water clinging to it. 
Add the pasta and 1/2 cup of the reserved pasta cooking water to the skillet, 
using more or less as needed. Stir in the olives and the scallion greens. Drizzle 
with the remaining olive oil to taste. Heat gently for a few minutes so that 
flavors meld. T aste for salt and pepper. Serve warm, passing the remaining 
breadcrumbs at the table. —Molly Stevens
PER SERVING: 760 CALORIES  |  25G PROTEIN  |  101G C ARB  |  29G TOT AL FA T  |  4G SA T FA T  |   
19G MONO FA T  |  3G POL Y FA T  |  10MG CHOL  |  1,47 0MG SODIUM  |  9G FIBER
102  P A S TA