penne alla puttanesca and 
shrimp
S e r v e S  4
 2  Tbs. extra-virgin olive oil
 2  large cloves garlic, smashed 
and peeled
 1  medium yellow onion, finely 
chopped
 1  tsp. finely grated orange zest 
(from half a medium orange)
 1/2      tsp. dried oregano
 1/4      tsp. crushed red pepper flakes
 1/2      cup dry white wine
 1   28-oz. can whole tomatoes, 
coarsely chopped and juice 
reserved
 1 / 3  cup pitted Kalamata olives, 
rinsed and quartered
 2   Tbs. capers, rinsed 
   Kosher salt and freshly ground 
black pepper
 8   oz. whole-grain penne pasta
 12  oz. medium shrimp (51 to 
60 per lb.), peeled and 
deveined
 3  anchovies, finely chopped 
(optional)
 1/2      cup grated pecorino romano 
 1 / 3   cup chopped fresh flat-leaf 
parsley Anchovies are a traditional 
component of this classic Italian 
dish, but they’re optional. Shrimp, 
on the other hand, may not be 
authentic, but they’re completely 
at home in the spicy, briny sauce.
1. Heat the oil in a 12-inch skillet 
over medium heat. Add the garlic 
and cook until golden, 2 to 3 min-
utes. Add the onion, orange zest, 
oregano, and pepper flakes and cook, stirring occasionally, until the onion is 
tender, 5 to 6 minutes. Add the wine and simmer until it has almost evapo-
rated, about 2 minutes. Stir in the tomatoes and their juice, olives, and capers. 
Bring to a boil over medium-high heat, reduce the heat to maintain a gentle 
simmer, and cook until the sauce has thickened, about 20 minutes. Season to 
taste with salt and pepper. 
2. Meanwhile, bring a large pot of salted water to a boil. Add the penne and 
cook until al dente. Drain well.
3. Add the shrimp and anchovies (if using) to the sauce in the skillet. Raise 
the heat to medium high and cook, stirring occasionally, until the shrimp are 
cooked through, 3 to 4 minutes. Pour the pasta into the skillet and toss with 
the shrimp sauce. Divide the pasta among 4 bowls, and sprinkle with the 
cheese and parsley. —Ivy Manning
PER SERVING: 550 CALORIES  |  42G PROTEIN  |  47G CA RB  |  20G TOT AL FA T  |  5G SA T FA T  |  
10G MONO FA T  |  3G POL Y FA T  |  215MG CHOL  |  2,8 40MG SODIUM  |  7G FIBER
P A S TA   147orecchiette with broccoli raab 
and anchovies
S e r v e S  4
 1  Tbs. salt
 1  bunch broccoli raab, tough 
stems and outer leaves 
trimmed 
 1  recipe Basic Orecchiette 
(recipe p. 65)
 3  whole salt-packed anchovies 
or 6 to 8 oil-cured anchovy 
fillets
 4  Tbs. extra-virgin olive oil; 
more for drizzling
 1  large clove garlic, slightly 
crushed
   Salt and freshly ground black 
pepperThis is a classic orecchiette dish. If you can’t find salt-packed anchovies, you 
can use oil-cured ones as long as you rinse them thoroughly. 
1. Bring a large pot of water to a boil. Add the salt and the broccoli raab and boil 
until tender, 3 to 5 minutes. Remove the raab with a slotted spoon, reserving 
the boiling water, and run the raab under cold water to stop the cooking. 
Squeeze out as much of the water as possible and chop the raab coarsely. Set 
aside. Let the water return to a boil. Add the orecchiette and cook until done, 
about 8 minutes for freshly made or about 20 minutes for dried.
2. Meanwhile, bone the anchovies if salt-packed or rinse if oil-cured. Pat them 
dry, chop them, and set them aside. Heat 1 Tbs. of the oil in a large frying pan. 
Add the garlic clove and sauté until browned and fragrant; discard the clove. 
Add the anchovies and sauté for 1 to 2 minutes, pressing with a wooden spoon 
to turn them into a paste.
3. When the pasta is cooked, drain it; add it to the pan along with the broccoli 
raab and remaining olive oil. T oss for about 1 minute to warm the ingredients 
and thoroughly coat the pasta. Serve immediately, drizzled with more olive oil, 
if desired, and seasoned with salt and pepper. —Natalie Danford
PER SERVING: 470 CALORIES  |  12G PROTEIN  |  69G CA RB  |  16G TOT AL FA T  |  2G SA T FA T  |   
11G MONO FA T  |  2G POL Y FA T  |  5MG CHOL  |  630MG  SODIUM  |  4G FIBER
148  P A S TAorecchiette with mussels and mint
S e r v e S  4
 1  Tbs. salt
 1  recipe Basic Orecchiette 
(recipe p. 65)
 12  to 16 mussels, scrubbed and 
debearded
 1/2   cup dry white wine
 2   medium zucchini, cut into 
1-inch matchsticks
 1/2  cup heavy cream
   Salt and freshly ground black 
pepper to taste
 1/4   cup loosely packed fresh mint 
leaves, chopped This somewhat startling coupling of seafood and mint makes sense against a 
background of supportive, plain pasta. 
1. Bring a large pot of water to a boil. Add the salt and orecchiette and cook 
until done, about 8 minutes for freshly made or about 20 minutes for dried. 
Drain well.
2. Put the mussels in a large frying pan with the wine. Cover and bring to a boil. 
Steam over medium heat until all the mussels have opened, 2 to 3 minutes. 
Remove the mussels with a slotted spoon. Strain the mussel broth through 
a coffee filter or a double layer of cheesecloth and return it to the frying pan. 
Add the zucchini, cover, bring to a boil, and steam until cooked but not mushy, 
about 3 minutes.
3. Meanwhile, remove the mussels from their shells and set aside. When 
the zucchini are cooked, add the mussel meats and the cream; simmer  
until the liquid is thickened and reduced, about 3 minutes. Season with salt 
and pepper. 
4. T oss the cooked orecchiette in the cream sauce over the heat until most 
of the cream is absorbed, about 1 minute. Sprinkle with the mint and serve 
immediately. —Natalie Danford
PER SERVING: 480 CALORIES  |  17G PROTEIN  |  71G CAR B  |  13G TOT AL FA T  |  7G SA T FA T  |   
4G MONO FA T  |  1G POL Y FA T  |  55MG CHOL  |  670MG  SODIUM  |  4G FIBER
P A S TA   151