30  S TA R T E R S ,  S A L A D S  &  S O U P SThis hearty Tuscan soup is full 
of flavor, with or without the 
sausage. The crinkly, deep-green 
leaves of Lacinato kale (also 
called dinosaur or black kale) 
are ideal, but any variety of kale 
will work. Serve with a crusty 
baguette.
1. Heat 1 Tbs. of the oil in a 4- to 
5-quart pot over medium heat. 
Add the onion, carrot, celery, and rosemary and cook, stirring occasionally, 
until the vegetables begin to soften, about 6 minutes. Add the tomato paste 
and garlic and cook until fragrant, 45 seconds. Add the broth, beans, kale, and 
Parmigiano rind (if using). Bring to a boil, reduce the heat to medium low, and 
simmer gently until the vegetables are tender, about 15 minutes. 
2. Meanwhile, heat the remaining 1/2    Tbs. oil in a 10-inch nonstick skillet over 
medium-low heat. Add the sausage meatballs, sprinkle with a pinch of salt, 
and cook, stirring occasionally, until browned and cooked through, about 
10 minutes.
3. Stir the cider vinegar into the soup and season to taste with salt and pepper.
4. Add the meatballs and bring to a simmer over medium-high heat. Cook 
5 minutes more to meld the flavors. —Ivy Manning
PER SERVING: 430 CALORIES  |  20G PROTEIN  |  48G CARB  |  18G TOT AL FA T  |  5G SA T FA T  |  
9G MONO FA T  |  3G POL Y FA T  |  25MG CHOL  |  1,160MG SODIUM  |  12G FIBER
cannellini bean and 
kale soup with sausage
S E R V E S  4
 11/2     Tbs. extra-virgin olive oil
 1  medium yellow onion, finely 
chopped (11/2    cups)
 1  medium carrot, peeled and 
finely chopped (3/4    cup)
 1  medium rib celery, finely 
chopped (3/4    cup)
 11/2     tsp. minced fresh rosemary
 2  Tbs. tomato paste
 2  large cloves garlic, minced 
(1 Tbs.)
 1  quart homemade or lower-salt 
vegetable broth
 2  15-oz. cans cannellini beans, 
rinsed and drained
 6  oz. Lacinato kale, center ribs 
removed, and leaves chopped 
(about 4 firmly packed cups)
 1  Parmigiano-Reggiano rind 
(1x3 inches; optional)
 1/2     lb. sweet or hot bulk Italian 
sausage, rolled into bite-size 
meatballs
   Kosher salt and freshly ground 
black pepper
 11/2     tsp. cider vinegarcabbage and white bean soup
M A K E S  9  T O  1 0  C U P S ;  S E R V E S  6
 8  oz. (11/4    cups) dried cannellini, 
Great Northern, or navy 
beans, sorted and rinsed
 1  medium clove garlic, smashed 
and peeled
 1  bay leaf
  Kosher salt
 2  Tbs. extra-virgin olive oil or 
unsalted butter
 1/4     lb. fresh Italian sausage, out 
of its casing and crumbled 
(optional)
 3/4     cup chopped onion
 3/4     cup chopped celery
 2  tsp. chopped fresh rosemary
 1  tsp. chopped fresh thyme
 1  Tbs. tomato paste (optional)
 11/2     cups thinly sliced green 
cabbage
 11/2     cups peeled and diced red or 
white potatoes
 5  to 6 cups homemade or lower-
salt chicken or vegetable broth
  Freshly ground black pepper
 1 / 3  cup chopped fresh flat-leaf 
parsleyThis soup, in which the beans remain whole, can be transformed into endless 
variations by using different types of beans and vegetables. Make a big pot on 
Sunday and enjoy the leftovers for lunch or dinner throughout the week. 
1. Put the beans in a large bowl, add enough cold water to cover the beans by 
3 inches, and soak for 4 to 12 hours. 
2. Drain and rinse the beans and transfer them to a 3- or 4-quart saucepan. 
Add the garlic clove, bay leaf, and 6 cups cold water. Partially cover and sim-
mer gently, stirring every 20 to 30 minutes, until the beans are tender and 
almost creamy inside, without being mealy or mushy, 1 to 11/2    hours. When the 
beans are about three-quarters done, season with 3/4    tsp. salt. If at any time 
the liquid doesn’t cover the beans, add 1 cup fresh water. Drain the beans, 
reserving the cooking liquid, and discard the bay leaf. If you cook the beans 
in advance (up to 1 day ahead), refrigerate the beans and the cooking liquid 
separately until you make the soup. 
3. Heat the olive oil or butter in a 4- to 5-quart soup pot or Dutch oven over 
medium heat. If using the sausage, add it now. Cook, stirring often, until the 
fat is rendered and the sausage begins to brown, 5 to 6 minutes. Pour the 
meat and fat into a small strainer set over a bowl, and set the meat aside. 
Spoon 2 Tbs. of fat back into the pot, and return it to medium heat.
4. Add the onion and celery and season to taste with salt and pepper. Cook, 
stirring frequently, until they begin to soften but not brown, 4 to 6 minutes. Stir 
in the rosemary, thyme, and tomato paste (if using), and cook until fragrant, 
1 minute. 
5. Add the cabbage and potatoes, stirring to incorporate with the rest. Add 
2 cups of the broth, partially cover, and simmer until the vegetables are just 
barely tender, 10 to 20 minutes. 
6. Add the beans and then 3 cups of broth and 1 cup of the reserved bean-
cooking liquid. If you have less than 1 cup bean liquid left, adjust the broth for 
a total of 4 cups liquid. 
7. Return the cooked sausage to the pot, if using. Stir to combine and simmer, 
partially covered, for 10 minutes to meld the flavors. T aste the soup and add 
salt and pepper to taste. Sprinkle with some of the parsley, reserving some to 
sprinkle on top of each serving, if you like. —Molly Stevens
S TA R T E R S ,  S A L A D S  &  S O U P S   31Black Bean Soup  
with Sweet Potatoes  
(recipe on page 5)
pizza with goat cheese  
(recipe on p. 40)&pizza, calzone
stromboli
pizza dough  p. 34
calzone p. 36
stromboli  p. 37
pickled mushroom and gruyère 
pizza p. 38
fresh spinach and pancetta pizza  p. 39pizza with goat cheese  p. 40
pizza with prosciutto and arugula  p. 41
grilled pizza with tomato-balsamic 
sauce, chicken & eggplant  p. 43
grilled mushroom, onion & fontina 
pizzas p. 44