DE S S E R T S   229how to assemble tiramisù
Break one ladyfinger after you’ve dipped 
it in the cooled coffee to check that the 
coffee has penetrated only halfway through, 
leaving the core dry. The outside will be 
quite soft, but the inside should be firm.
Evenly spread half the mascarpone cream 
with a spatula over a tight layer of ladyfingers 
arranged in a 9x13-inch baking dish.
Use a fine-mesh sieve to finish off the 
tiramisù with a generous dusting of cocoa 
powder just before serving.gianduia mousse
S E RV E S  6
FOR  THE  MOU SSE
 6  o z. bittersweet or semisweet 
chocolate, finely chopped
 11/2   cups heavy cream
 2 / 3   cup Hazelnut Butter (recipe 
on the facing page) at room 
temperature
 2  tsp. pure vanilla extract
FOR THE GARNISH
 1/2   cup heavy cream
 1/2   tsp. pure vanilla extract
 2   Tbs. finely ground toasted 
hazelnuts (grind the toasted 
nuts in a food processor)The hazelnut butter in this quick-to-make, creamy mousse adds a bit of 
texture. You can also use the mousse as a pie filling in your favorite graham 
cracker crust or tart crust; serve well chilled. This mousse is best when served 
within 6 hours of the time it’s made.
MAKE THE MOUSSE
1. In a 2-quart metal bowl set over a saucepan of simmering water, melt the 
chocolate, stirring with a rubber spatula until the chocolate is completely 
smooth. In a separate small saucepan, heat 1/2 cup of the cream over medium 
heat to just below the boiling point. Remove the bowl of chocolate from the 
pan of water and wipe the bottom and sides dry. Pour the hot cream into the 
melted chocolate and stir together with the spatula until well blended. Add the 
hazelnut butter and stir until well combined. Stir in the vanilla.
2. In a chilled mixing bowl, using chilled beaters, beat the remaining 1 cup 
cream until it holds soft peaks. With a rubber spatula, fold the whipped cream 
into the chocolate mixture in four batches, blending thoroughly after each 
addition. Pour the mousse into a 11/2-quart soufflé dish or serving bowl, or into 
individual serving bowls or glasses. Cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate 
until set, at least 2 hours.
MAKE THE GARNISH
In a chilled bowl with chilled beaters, beat the 1/2 cup cream until frothy. Add 
the 1/2 tsp. vanilla and continue beating until the cream holds soft peaks. Pipe 
or spoon the whipped cream on top of the mousse. Sprinkle the ground 
hazelnuts over the whipped cream and serve. —Carole Bloom
PER SERVING: 630 CALORIES  |  7G PROTEIN  |  26G CAR B  |  59G TOT AL FA T  |  24G SA T FA T  |   
26G MONO FA T  |  7G POL Y FA T  |  110MG CHOL  |  35M G SODIUM  |  3G FIBER
230  D E S S E R T Shazelnut butter
M A K E S  ABO U T  1 C U P
 8  o z. (1  2 / 3 cups) hazelnuts
 1/4   cup vegetable oil, such as 
canola or sunflowerThis butter can be refrigerated in a sealed container for up to 3 months or 
frozen for up to 6 months. If frozen, thaw it slowly in the refrigerator overnight. 
Always bring the hazelnut butter to room temperature before use. 
TOAST AND SKIN THE HAZELNUTS
1. Heat the oven to 350°F . Spread the hazelnuts in a single layer on a baking 
sheet and toast in the heated oven until the skins are mostly split and the nuts 
are light golden brown and quite fragrant, 15 to 18 minutes. Don’t overcook the 
nuts or they’ll become bitter.
2. Put the warm hazelnuts in a clean dishtowel. Fold the towel around the 
hazelnuts and let them steam for at least 5 minutes. Then rub the nuts in the 
towel to remove most of the skins (try to get at least 50 percent of the skins 
off). Let the hazelnuts sit for another 10 to 15 minutes to cool completely. 
T oasted, peeled hazelnuts can be cooled and frozen in a sealed plastic con-
tainer for up to 3 months.
MAKE THE HAZELNUT BUTTER
Put the nuts in a food processor; add the oil and pulse a few times. Then pro-
cess, checking the consistency every few seconds, until the texture resembles 
that of natural, unhomogenized peanut butter or wet sand, 1 to 2 minutes.
D E S S E R T S   231creamy orange-ricotta tart
M A K E S  O N E  9 1/2 - I N C H  TA R T ; 
S E RV E S  1 2
 1  5-o z. container whole-milk 
ricotta (about 11/2 cups)
 3  oz. cream cheese, at room 
temperature
 3/4   cup sugar
 2  Tbs. unbleached all-purpose 
flour
 1/4  tsp. table salt
 3  large egg yolks
 1  Tbs. finely grated orange zest
 1  Tbs. orange-flavored liqueur 
(such as Grand Marnier ® or 
Cointreau ®) or orange juice
 1  Press-In Cookie Crust (recipe 
below; preferably vanilla or 
chocolate), baked and cooled
   Strips of orange zest or seg-
ments of blood orange, for 
garnish (optional)Using ricotta in addition to cream cheese gives this tart a fluffier, lighter  
texture.
1. Position a rack in the center of the oven and heat the oven to 350°F . In a 
medium bowl, combine the ricotta and cream cheese. Using an electric  
mixer, beat on medium speed until well blended and no lumps remain, about  
3 minutes. Add the sugar, flour, and salt and continue beating until well 
blended, about 1 minute. Add the egg yolks, orange zest, and orange liqueur. 
Beat until just incorporated. Use a rubber spatula to scrape the filling into the 
crust and spread the filling evenly.
2. Bake the tart until the filling just barely jiggles when the pan is nudged, 30 to 
35 minutes. Let cool completely on a rack. Refrigerate the tart in the pan until 
chilled and firm, 2 to 3 hours. Serve garnished with strips of orange zest or 
blood orange segments, if you like. —Abigail Johnson Dodge
232  D E S S E R T Spress-in cookie crust
M A K E S  1  C R U S T  F O R  
A  9 1/2 - I N C H  TA R T
 1  cup finely ground cookies 
(ground in a food processor); 
choose one from the follow-
ing: about 35 vanilla wafers, 
about 25 chocolate wafers, or 
8 whole graham crackers 
 2  Tbs. sugar
 11/2   oz. (3 Tbs.) unsalted butter, 
meltedAlter the type of cookie you use and you can change the flavor profile of  
your tart. 
1. Position a rack in the center of the oven and heat the oven to 350°F . Have 
ready an ungreased 9 1/2-inch fluted tart pan with a removable bottom.
2. In a medium bowl, mix the cookie crumbs and sugar with a fork until well 
blended. Drizzle the melted butter over the crumbs and mix with the fork or 
your fingers until the crumbs are evenly moistened. Put the crumbs in the tart 
pan and use your hands to spread the crumbs so that they coat the bottom of 
the pan and start to climb the sides. Use your fingers to pinch and press some 
of the crumbs around the inside edge of the pan to cover the sides evenly and 
create a wall about a scant 1/4 inch thick. Redistribute the remaining crumbs 
evenly over the bottom of the pan and press firmly to make a compact layer. 
(A metal measuring cup with straight sides and a flat base is good for this task.)
3. Bake the crust until it smells nutty and fragrant (crusts made with lighter-
colored cookies will brown slightly), about 10 minutes. Set the baked crust on 
a rack and let cool. The crust can be made up to 1 day ahead and stored at 
room temperature, wrapped well in plastic.