mussels stuffed with spinach 
and parmesan 
S E R V E S  4
 1 cup dry white wine
 4 Tbs. finely chopped shallots
 1 tsp. cracked black pepper
 4 sprigs fresh flat-leaf parsley
 1 bay leaf
 1/2  tsp. chopped fresh thyme  
(omit if fresh isn’t available)
 28  medium mussels (about 2 lb.), 
sorted and cleaned
FOR THE STUFFING
 2 Tbs. butter or olive oil
 2  cups lightly packed, washed, 
stemmed, and chopped fresh 
spinach
 1/2  cup heavy cream
 3 Tbs. chopped fresh flat-leaf  
  parsley
   Salt and freshly ground  
black pepper
 1 / 3 cup grated Parmesan cheeseThis savory appetizer will convert 
anyone still timid about mussels. 
Serve with small forks and bread 
to soak up the rich juices.
Combine the wine, 2 Tbs. of the 
shallots, the pepper, parsley 
sprigs, bay leaf, and thyme in a 
pot (with a lid) large enough to 
accommodate the mussels when 
their shells have opened. Bring to 
a boil, add the mussels, cover, and steam until just opened, 2 to 3 minutes.  
Try not to steam the mussels longer than necessary, because they’ll be 
cooked again later. Remove the mussels with a slotted spoon and set aside. 
Strain the cooking liquid through a strainer lined with several layers of 
cheesecloth and reserve.
FOR THE STUFFING
1. Heat the butter in a heavy-based pan. Add the remaining shallots and cook 
until soft, 3 to 4 minutes. Add the spinach, cover, and cook briefly until the 
spinach wilts. Uncover and cook until the liquid from the spinach evaporates, 
another 3 to 4 minutes. Add 1/2 cup of the strained mussel liquid and cook until 
the mixture is almost dry, about 5 minutes. Add the cream and cook until the 
mixture is almost dry, about 10 minutes. Add the chopped parsley and season 
to taste with salt and pepper; the mixture should be quite peppery. 
2. Heat the broiler. Remove the mussels from their shells. Make a bed of rock 
salt or crumpled foil on a baking sheet (to steady the shells) and arrange as 
many half shells as you have  mussel meats. Put a mussel meat on each half 
shell and spoon a teaspoonful of the spinach mixture over each. T op with the 
grated cheese and broil until golden and bubbly, 4 to 6 minutes.   
—Molly Stevens
PER SERVING: 380 CALORIES  |  27G PROTEIN  |  12G CARB  |  23G TOT AL FA T  |  12G SA T FA T  |  
6G MONO FA T  |  2G POL Y FA T  |  115MG CHOL  |  820MG SODIUM  |   1G FIBER
S TA R T E R S ,  S A L A D S  &  S O U P S   13At the fish counter, look for mussels that are tigh tly 
closed or slightly open (and close immediately with 
a tap), an indication they’re alive. If they’re wid e 
open, they’re dead or close to it. Once you have 
them in hand, take a sniff . They should smell like the 
sea. Buy more than you’ll need, since you’ll have t o 
discard any that don’t open during cooking.
Just before cooking, look for any mussels that 
have opened and tap them on the counter. If 
they don’t close, discard them. Check closed mussels by pressing on the two shells in opposing 
directions. Dead ones will fall apart. Scrub the 
remaining mussels under cold running water with a 
stiff brush to get rid of any grit. If the mussels have 
“beards”—black hairy fibers sticking out of their 
shells—pinch them and yank them off.
T o keep mussels fresh, store in an open plastic 
bag (shellfish will suffocate in a sealed bag) in the 
fridge on a bed of ice in a large bowl. Refresh ice as 
it melts, and use within a day.Choosing Mussels 14   S TA R T E R S ,  S A L A D S  &  S O U P Stomato and olive pizzettas 
with aged goat cheese
M A K E S  1 8  M I N I  P I Z Z A S ;  
S E R V E S  6  T O  8  
  Flour for the work surface
 1   lb. pizza dough, store-bought 
or homemade 
   Extra-virgin olive oil, for  
brushing
   Kosher salt and freshly ground 
black pepper
 2  tsp. fennel seeds, coarsely 
chopped
 1  1-inch-thick slice Bûcheron 
(about 6 oz.), cut into  
36 thin wedges (if the cheese 
crumbles, let it warm to room 
temperature), or a log of fresh 
goat cheese, cut into thin 
rounds
 14  pitted Kalamata olives,  
quartered
 18  cherry or grape tomatoes, 
sliced into 1/4-inch rounds, 
ends discarded
  Crushed red pepper flakes
 11/2  tsp. sambuca or Pernod ®Sambuca or Pernod makes a nice, sweet contrast with the salty cheese, and it 
brings out the flavor of the fennel. 
1. Heat a gas grill to medium high or prepare a medium-hot charcoal fire with 
the coals banked to one side to provide a cooler area on the grill.
2. On a well-floured surface roll out the pizza dough with a rolling pin until it’s 
1 / 8 inch thick. If the dough is very elastic and resists rolling, cover it with plastic 
and let it rest for about 5 minutes. You may have to repeat this step a few 
times until the dough is relaxed and willing to roll. Using a 3-inch round cookie 
cutter, cut the dough into 18 rounds. Discard the excess dough. 
3. Brush the top of the dough rounds with oil and sprinkle with salt, pepper, 
and fennel seeds, pressing gently to make sure they adhere. Transfer the 
rounds to a baking sheet, fennel side up.
4. Working with half of the pizzettas at a time, grill them fennel side down 
(covered on a gas grill, uncovered on a charcoal grill) for 1 minute. Check the 
pizzettas: If they have puffed up, flatten them with a metal spatula. Brush 
the floured sides (which are facing up) with oil. Grill until the bottom is nicely 
browned and crisp, about another 1 minute. Loosen with a metal spatula, if 
necessary, and return the pizzettas, grilled side up, to the baking sheet. (If us-
ing a gas grill, turn the heat down to medium.)
5. Working quickly, top each with 2 wedges of Bûcheron, 3 olive pieces, 
3 tomato slices, and a pinch of red pepper flakes. Use a small spoon to sprinkle 
each pizzetta with a few drops of sambuca or Pernod. 
6. Return the pizzettas to the medium-heat gas grill or to the cooler side of a 
charcoal grill. Continue grilling, covered, until the pizzettas are crisp and the 
cheese is melted, about 2 minutes. Transfer to a platter and serve while you 
repeat with the remaining dough rounds. —Allison Ehri Kreitler
PER SERVING: 280 CALORIES  |  9G PROTEIN  |  26G CARB  |  15G TOT AL FA T  |  4.5G SA T FA T  |  
6G MONO FA T  |  1G POL Y FA T  |  15MG CHOL  |  670MG SODIUM  |  1G FIBER