spaghetti with  
mushroom cream sauce 
SE R V E S  4
 12  o z. dried spaghetti
  Kosher salt
 1  Tbs. extra-virgin olive oil
 1  Tbs. unsalted butter
 1  large shallot, finely chopped
 1  lb. mixed mushrooms, 
cleaned, trimmed, and sliced 
1/4 inch thick 
  Freshly ground black pepper
 2  Tbs. tawny port
 1/2 cup heavy cream
 1/2 cup sour cream
 3  Tbs. chopped fresh parsley or 
2 Tbs. chopped fresh tarragon
   Grated Parmigiano-Reggiano, 
for serving This easy pasta gets complex 
flavor from a combination 
of mushrooms (try a mix of 
cremini, shiitake, black trumpet, 
portabella, and chanterelle), 
cream, and a secret ingredient—
tawny port. 
1. Over high heat, cook the 
spaghetti in a large pot of boiling 
salted water according to the 
package directions until al dente. 
2. Meanwhile, heat the oil and butter in a 12-inch ski llet over medium-high heat. 
Add the shallot and cook, stirring, until it just b egins to color, 1 to 2 minutes. Add 
the mushrooms, 3/4 tsp. salt, and a few grinds of pepper and stir constantly 
until the mushrooms begin to release their liquid, about 3 minutes. Lower the 
heat to medium and cook, stirring occasionally, until soft and lightly browned, 
about 5 minutes more. 
3. Add the port and stir to deglaze the pan. Add the cream and sour cream, 
bring to a simmer, and reduce the heat to medium-low. Cook, stirring 
frequently, until the liquid reduces to a saucy consistency, about 2 minutes.
4. When the spaghetti is al dente, reserve 1/2 cup of the cooking water and drain 
the spaghetti. Add the spaghetti and the reserved water to the sauce. T oss 
over low heat, sprinkle with the parsley or tarragon, and toss again to combine. 
If the sauce seems thin, continue to toss until it has thickened a bit. Season 
to taste with more salt and pepper. Serve and pass the Parmigiano at the 
table.  —Jennifer McLagan
PER SERVING: 590 CALORIES  |  17G PROTEIN  |  71G CAR B  |  26G TOT AL FA T  |  13G SA T FA T  |   
8G MONO FA T  |  2G POL Y FA T  |  60MG CHOL  |  520MG  SODIUM  |  5G FIBER
P A S TA   57When you bring a pot of water to a boil to cook pasta, be sure to 
add a generous amount of salt. Well-salted water seasons the 
pasta internally as it absorbs liquid and swells. If the pasta is 
sufficiently salted during boiling, the pasta dish may even require 
less salt overall.
For 1 lb. pasta, use 4 quarts water and 2 Tbs. kosher salt—the 
water should taste as salty as seawater. Don’t Skimp on the Saltorecchiette with caramelized 
onions, green beans, fresh corn 
& jalapeño
SE R V E S  4
  K osher salt
 1 / 3  cup extr a-virgin olive oil
 2  cups thinly sliced sweet onion 
(from 1 large onion)
 1  lb. dried orecchiette
 1/2  lb. fresh green beans, washed, 
trimmed, and sliced on the 
diagonal into 1-inch lengths
 1  cup fresh corn kernels (from 
about 2 ears)
 1  jalapeño, stemmed, halved 
lengthwise, seeded, and thinly 
sliced crosswise
   Freshly ground black pepper
 1/4  cup grated pecorino romano
 1  Tbs. chopped fresh flat-leaf 
parsleyThe flavors in this pasta build 
with each bite. Try it once, and 
it will become a summertime 
staple. If you can’t find orecchi-
ette, you can use farfalle instead. 
1. Bring a large pot of well-salted 
water to a boil over high heat. 
2. Heat the olive oil in a 12-inch skillet over medium-high heat. When the oil is 
hot, add the onion and a large pinch of salt and cook, stirring frequently, until 
the onion is beginning to soften and brown, about 5 minutes. Lower the heat 
to medium and continue cooking, stirring frequently, until the onion is very 
soft and light golden brown, about 15 minutes more (if the onion begins to look 
like it’s burning, add 2 Tbs. warm water and lower the heat). 
3. Put the orecchiette in the boiling water and cook until just shy of al dente, 
about 9 minutes. Add the green beans to the pasta water in the last minute  
of cooking.
4. While the pasta cooks, add the corn, jalapeño, and a pinch of salt to the 
onion and cook, stirring occasionally, until the corn kernels begin to soften,  
3 to 5 minutes. Remove from the heat.
5. Reserve 1/2 cup of the pasta and green bean cooking water and drain the 
pasta and green beans together in a colander.
6. Return the orecchiette, green beans, and 2 Tbs. of the reserved water to the 
pot. Add the onion mixture and toss over medium heat until the green beans 
are crisp-tender and the orecchiette is perfectly al dente, 1 to 2 minutes. Add 
more of the pasta water as necessary to keep the dish moist. Season to taste 
with salt and pepper, transfer to warm shallow bowls, and top each serving 
with the pecorino and parsley. —Scott Conant
PER SERVING: 680 CALORIES  |  19G PROTEIN  |  104G C ARB  |  22G TOT AL FA T  |  4G SA T FA T  |   
13G MONO FA T  |  2.5G POL Y FA T  |  5MG CHOL  |  570 MG SODIUM  |  8G FIBER
58  P A S TAT o moisten the dish and help the flavors come 
together, follow these steps: 
•  Reserve about 1/2 cup of the pasta-cooking 
water. The water contains starches released by 
the pasta, which will help enrich the overall dish 
and create a more saucy consistency.
•  Drain the pasta when it’s just shy of al dente. 
You’ll briefly cook the pasta with the rest of the ingredients and the pasta water; if the pasta is 
slightly underdone when everything is com-
bined, it won’t overcook.
•  Add the reserved pasta water to the pasta and 
sauce and toss. The starches in the water help 
the sauce cling to the pasta, which in turn acts 
like a sponge, absorbing the flavors.Pasta Water Is the Secret Ingredient spaghetti with pine nuts,  
tomato & garlic breadcrumbs 
SE R V E S  4
 1/2   cup extr a-virgin olive oil
 2  cloves garlic, minced
 2 1/2  cups fresh coarse bread-
crumbs
   Kosher salt and freshly ground 
black pepper
 1/2  cup pine nuts, toasted
 3/4  lb. dried spaghetti
 1/4 cup raisins
 1/4  tsp. crushed red pepper flakes
 1  pint cherry tomatoes, halved
 6  Tbs. chopped fresh flat-leaf 
parsleyT oast the pine nuts on a rimmed baking sheet in the oven or in a skillet on the 
stovetop—just watch that they don’t burn.
1. Bring a large pot of salted water to a boil. 
2. Heat 2 Tbs. of the oil and half the garlic in a heavy skillet over medium high 
heat until the garlic is fragrant but not brown, about 30 seconds. Turn the heat 
to medium, toss in the breadcrumbs, season with salt and pepper, and cook, 
stirring often, until the crumbs brown and turn crisp, 6 to 10 minutes. Transfer 
to a medium bowl and stir in the pine nuts. 
3. Put the pasta in the water.
4. Add 2 Tbs. of the oil to the skillet and cook the remaining garlic, the raisins, 
and the pepper flakes until the garlic is fragrant but not browned, about  
30 seconds. Add the tomatoes, season generously with salt and pepper, and 
sauté for 5 minutes so they start to soften and lose their shape. Fold in all but 
2 Tbs. of the parsley. 
5. Finish cooking the pasta until it’s just tender, about 10 minutes total. Drain 
the pasta, put it in a large serving bowl, and toss with the tomato mixture,  
half of the breadcrumbs, and 2 Tbs. of the olive oil. T aste for salt and pepper. 
Drizzle each serving with 1/2 Tbs. of the remaining oil and sprinkle with the 
remaining breadcrumbs and parsley. Serve immediately. —T ony Rosenfeld
PER SERVING: 850 CALORIES  |  21G PROTEIN  |  106G C ARB  |  39G TOT AL FA T  |  6G SA T FA T  |  
24G MONO FA T  |  7G POL Y FA T  |  0MG CHOL  |  800MG  SODIUM  |  6G FIBER
P A S TA   59