P A S TA   73orecchiette with romesco sauce and  
roasted red peppers
SE R V E S  6
  K osher salt
 12  o z. dried orecchiette
 6  Tbs. extra-virgin olive oil
 3  red bell peppers, roasted 
 1  slice coarse-textured white 
bread
 1/4   cup skinned almonds
 1  cup fresh or canned peeled, 
seeded, chopped, and drained 
tomatoes
 1  clove garlic, minced
 2  tsp. sweet paprika
 1/2   tsp. crushed red pepper flakes
 4  Tbs. Spanish sherry vinegar
   Freshly ground black pepper
 1/4   cup coarsely chopped fresh 
flat-leaf parsley; more whole 
leaves for garnishThis spicy pasta is terrific on its own, but it’s also a perfect with grilled shrimp, 
flank steak, or pork tenderloin. For steak or pork, grill the meat in one piece, 
and then slice it and lay it over the pasta to let the juices blend in. 
1. In a large pot, bring 6 quarts water and 2 Tbs. salt t o a boil. Add the orecchiette 
and cook until al dente, 10 to 12 minutes. Drain the pasta and toss it immedi-
ately with 1 Tbs. of the olive oil. Let the pasta cool completely in the refrigera-
tor. Peel and seed the roasted peppers and cut them into 1-inch pieces.
2. Heat 1 Tbs. of the olive oil in a small skillet over medium heat. Add the bread 
and fry, turning occasionally, until golden on both sides. Transfer the bread to a 
food processor. In the same skillet over medium heat, fry the almonds, stirring 
until golden, about 2 minutes. Add the almonds, tomatoes, garlic, paprika, and 
red pepper flakes to the processor and pulse several times. In a small bowl, 
combine the vinegar with the remaining 4 Tbs. olive oil. With the processor 
running, gradually pour in the olive oil mixture until well combined and smooth. 
Season with salt and pepper. Let sit for 1 hour before using.
3. In a large bowl, toss together the orecchiette, peppers, sauce, and the 
chopped parsley. Season to taste with salt and pepper. (At this point, the 
pasta can be held for a few hours in the refrigerator, if you like.) Put the pasta in 
a serving bowl and garnish with the parsley leaves (and grilled shrimp or sliced 
grilled meat, if using). —Joanne Weir
PER SERVING: 380 CALORIES  |  9G PROTEIN  |  47G CAR B  |  17G TOT AL FA T  |  2G SA T FA T  |   
12G MONO FA T  |  2G POL Y FA T  |  0MG CHOL  |  290MG  SODIUM  |  3G FIBER
SLOW-ROASTING IN THE OVEN  Put 
the peppers on a rimmed baking sheet 
and roast them in a 400°F oven, turning 
occasionally, until they get browned all over, 
45 to 60 minutes. Remove the peppers 
from the oven, cover with a dishtowel, and 
set aside to cool. 
how to roast  
bell peppers
There are two simple methods for 
roasting peppers to bring out their 
deep, rich flavor and soft texture.
ROASTING OVER A FLAME  This method 
results in a slightly firmer pepper, which is 
what you want when adding body to a dish, 
like pastas. Heat a gas grill to high or prepare 
a charcoal grill fire. Cut the tops and bot-
toms from the peppers and cut the peppers 
into 3 or 4 flat pieces, discarding the tops, 
seeds, and ribs. Grill the pepper sides and 
bottoms skin side down until blistered and 
charred all over, 6 to 8 minutes. (You can 
also char them over the flame of a gas 
stove or under a broiler.) Put the peppers 
in a bowl and cover with a plate. Let sit until 
cool enough to handle. Peel the charred skin 
and discard.74  P A S TAsicilian vegetable lasagne
M A K ES  T H R E E  4-SE R V I N G  
LASA G N ES
 6  y ellow or r ed bell peppers
 1/4   cup extra-virgin olive oil; more 
as needed
 1  large onion, very finely 
chopped
 6  cloves garlic, finely chopped
 1 / 3   cup finely chopped fresh  
flat-leaf parsley 
 16  anchovy fillets (preferably 
salt-packed), rinsed 
 4  28-oz. cans tomatoes, drained, 
seeded, and chopped (already 
diced is fine)
 3/4   cup pitted and chopped  
imported green olives
 3/4   cup pitted and chopped 
imported black olives
 1/2   cup capers, rinsed, chopped  
if large
 2  Tbs. dried oregano 
   Salt and freshly ground black 
pepper to taste
 3  eggplant (about 11/2 lb. each), 
peeled and sliced crosswise  
3 / 8 inch thick
   Olive oil, for roasting the  
eggplant
 21/2   lb. fresh mozzarella, sliced as 
thinly as possible
 21/4   cups freshly grated Parmesan, 
preferably Parmigiano- 
Reggiano 
 1  lb. instant (no-boil) lasagna 
noodles 
   Chopped fresh flat-leaf  
parsley, for servingThis Sicilian recipe from Catania, called lasagne alla Catanese , is typical of the 
baroque dishes of eastern Sicily. It’s considered baroque because its flavors 
are luscious, fanciful, and somewhat over the top. Roasting the eggplant 
takes some time, especially if you have one oven, not two, but the time is 
largely unattended. You can also pan-fry the eggplant or grill it. 
1. Char the bell peppers over a gas flame, on a grill, or under the broiler until the 
skins are blackened all over. Seal the peppers in a bag or a bowl to steam for  
10 minutes. Peel, seed, and chop the peppers. 
2. Heat the 1/4 cup of olive oil in a deep, heavy-based pot over medium-high 
heat. Add the onion, garlic, parsley, anchovies, and the chopped roasted bell 
peppers and cook, stirring frequently, until the anchovies have melted, about 
10 minutes.
3. Reduce the heat to medium low and add the tomatoes,  olives, capers, orega-
no, and 1 cup water. Season with salt and pepper. S immer, stirring occasionally, 
until the sauce thickens, 45 minutes. This will yie ld about 12 cups of sauce.
4. Heat the oven to 450°F . Line several baking sheets with parchment; lightly 
oil the parchment. Arrange the eggplant slices in one layer on the parchment; 
you may need to do this in batches. Brush the slices liberally with more olive 
oil and sprinkle lightly with salt. Roast until the slices are lightly browned and 
somewhat shrunken, 20 to 25 minutes. 
5. Reduce the oven heat to 400°F . Lightly oil three 9x9x2- or 8x8x2-inch 
square metal or ceramic baking pans (disposable pans are also fine) and 
cover the bottom of each with a layer of pasta. Sprinkle some of the Parmesan 
over the pasta. T op with a layer of eggplant slices. Spoon some of the sauce 
over the eggplant to amply cover, about 1 cup. T op with a layer of mozzarella 
and another sprinkling of the Parmesan. Continue in this order—pasta, Par-
mesan, eggplant, sauce, mozzarella, Parmesan—finishing with a layer of pasta, 
some sauce, and the Parmesan. You should be able to easily get four layers 
into each pan; if you have extra components, you can add another layer to 
one or more of the lasagne.
6. Seal the pans with aluminum foil, tented so it doesn’t stick to the cheese. 
Bake until a knife inserted in the center of each lasagne comes out very hot 
and the pasta is tender, 40 to 45 minutes. Let sit for 10 minutes before serving 
or cool completely on a rack before freezing. Sprinkle the lasagne with parsley 
before serving. Defrost frozen lasagne overnight in the refrigerator and then 
bake at 400°F for about 1 hour. —Clifford Wright
PER SERVING: 680 CALORIES  |  41G PROTEIN  |  65G CA RB  |  31G TOT AL FA T  |  14G SA T FA T  |   
13G MONO FA T  |  4G POL Y FA T  |  50MG CHOL  |  1,50 0MG SODIUM  |  13G FIBER