glazed carrots with marsala
SER V E S  4 TO 6 
 11/2   lb. carrots (about 8), peeled 
and trimmed
 2  Tbs. unsalted butter
 1  tsp. sugar
  Kosher salt
 1 / 3  cup sweet Marsala
 1  Tbs. chopped fresh flat-leaf  
parsley (optional)The flavor combination of carrots and Marsala is delicious served with lamb. If 
you don’t have Marsala, sweet sherry is a fine substitute.
1. Holding your knife at a sharp angle, cut each carrot into 1/4-inch-thick
oval slices. 
2. Melt the butter over medium heat in a 10- to 12-inch sauté pan. Add the 
carrots (they should be almost in a single layer), sugar, and 1 tsp. salt, and swirl 
the pan over medium heat until the sugar and salt dissolve and the carrots are 
evenly coated with butter. Add the Marsala, simmer for 3 minutes, and then 
add enough water to come halfway up the sides of the carrots (about 1 / 3 cup). 
Increase the heat to medium high, bring to a boil, and cover the pan with the 
lid slightly askew. Cook at a steady boil, shaking the pan occasionally, until the 
carrots are tender but not soft (a paring knife should enter a carrot with just a 
little resistance), 6 to 8 minutes. Uncover and continue to boil until the liquid 
evaporates and forms a syrup. Shake the pan and roll the pieces around to 
evenly glaze the carrots. T oss the carrots with the parsley, if you like, and serve. 
—T asha DeSerio
PER SERVING: 90 CALORIES  |  1G PROTEIN  |  14G CARB   |  4G TOT AL FA T  |  2.5G SA T FA T  |   
1G MONO FA T  |  0G POL Y FA T  |  10MG CHOL  |  360MG  SODIUM  |  3G FIBER
210  S I D E SCarrots are crisp and refreshing when raw, but their sweetness 
intensifies and they become tender when cooked, making them 
an accommodating partner for other ingredients. Though most 
carrots are orange, they come in many shapes and sizes, from 
purple to white, slender to chubby, tapered to conical.
How to choose
Your best guarantee of freshness is to buy carrots in bunches, 
with green tops still attached. Even when large, carrots with fresh 
tops should still be tender, juicy, and full of flavor. Look for firm 
roots and fresh, dark greens. When buying packaged carrots, 
look for plump, firm, fresh-looking roots with no shaggy hairlike 
protrusions.
How to store
Once you get carrots home, cut off the green tops, if still at-
tached, so they don’t draw moisture from the roots. Store 
carrots in plastic in the fridge; though they do keep well, carrots 
lose sweetness and flavor the longer they’re stored, so try to use 
them within 2 weeks. Peeled carrots will dry out faster than 
unpeeled.All about Carrotssautéed fresh porcini
SER V E S  4 
 1  lb. fresh porcini mushrooms, 
wiped clean with a soft cloth
 1/2  cup olive oil
   Kosher salt and freshly ground 
black pepper
 1  Tbs. unsalted butter
 2  Tbs. finely chopped shallot
   Squeeze of fresh lemon juice
 1  Tbs. finely chopped fresh flat-
leaf parsleyJust a few simple ingredients bring out the best woodsy flavor of these quint-
essentially Italian mushrooms. Try this alongside any roasted meat.
1. Cut the porcini caps into 1/2-inch slices and chop the stems into small dice. 
2. Heat the olive oil in a heavy frying pan. (Don’t worry about the large amount 
of oil—you’ll pour most of it off, but you need a lot to get the porcini properly 
browned.) When the oil is very hot ( just starting to smoke a bit), add the caps 
in an even layer and fry until well browned, about 2 minutes on each side. Turn 
the heat to low and cook for another 4 to 5 minutes until tender. Increase the 
heat to high, and give the slices a final sauté for 1 to 2 minutes until they’re 
crisp again, turning once. Transfer to a serving dish and season with salt and 
pepper.
3. Pour off all but 1 Tbs. of oil from the pan (if the oil seems burned, pour it all 
off and start with 1 Tbs. fresh oil), return the pan to high heat, and add the but-
ter. When foaming, add the shallot and chopped porcini stems. Season with a 
little salt and pepper and sauté until lightly browned, about 1 minute. Transfer 
to the cooked slices, squeeze on a little lemon juice, and sprinkle with parsley. 
Serve immediately. —Jon Rowley
PER SERVING: 300 CALORIES  |  3G PROTEIN  |  6G CARB   |  30G TOT AL FA T  |  6G SA T FA T  |   
21G MONO FA T  |  3G POL Y FA T  |  10MG CHOL  |  270M G SODIUM  |  1G FIBER212  S I D E Sfava beans with prosciutto, 
mint & garlic
SER V E S  2
 2  Tbs. extra-virgin olive oil
 2  Tbs. minced prosciutto
 1  tsp. minced garlic
 11/2   lb. fresh fava beans in the 
pod, shelled, parboiled, and 
skinned to yield 1 scant cup 
of favas
  Kosher salt
 1/2   tsp. balsamic vinegar
 8  large fresh mint leaves, finely 
chopped (to yield 2 to 3 tsp.)Favas are a staple on Italian 
tables in the spring, especially 
when paired with the season’s 
young mint. 
In a medium skillet, heat the  
olive oil over medium heat. Add 
the prosciutto and sauté for  
1 minute. Add the garlic and sau-
té, stirring constantly, until it’s 
very fragrant and just beginning 
to turn brown, another 1 to 2 minutes. Add the fava beans and 1/2 tsp. salt and  
sauté until the favas are heated and coated well with the pan contents, an-
other 2 minutes. (Some of the beans will begin to turn a lighter color.) Add the 
vinegar, turn off the heat, and stir to coat. Add the mint and stir to combine 
and wilt it. T aste for salt; depending on the saltiness of your prosciutto, you 
might want to add more. —Susie Middleton
PER SERVING: 200 CALORIES  |  9G PROTEIN  |  7G CARB   |  15G TOT AL FA T  |  2G SA T FA T  |   
11G MONO FA T  |  2G POL Y FA T  |  15MG CHOL  |  1,04 0MG SODIUM  |  2G FIBER
212  S I D E SAlso called broad beans, favas are nutty and slightly sweet, with 
just a touch of bitterness and a hint of cheese flavor. When 
buying favas, choose heavy, brightly colored pods that show 
bumps from the beans inside. Store fava pods in a plastic bag in 
the crisper section of the refrigerator right away. The pods will 
keep for 5 to 7 days. Store cooked and peeled favas in the 
refrigerator for up to 5 days at most. 
Blanch favas 
Bring a pot of water to a boil. Break open the bean pods, sliding 
your finger along one side or breaking it apart in pieces. Blanch 
the favas for 1 minute, then scoop out and plunge into a bowl of 
ice water.
Skin favas 
Grasp a fava bean between your fingers with the scar end facing 
up. With the thumbnail of your other hand, tear into the scar and 
peel back. Pinch gently and the fava will slide out.All about Fava Beans