DE S S E R T S   237
It doesn’t take much pressure to form 
logs—simply roll out the dough with your 
hands. A marble surface stays cool and 
helps keep the dough from sticking.how to make 
biscotti
Don’t overmix the batter or the 
biscotti will be fine-crumbed and 
dense. Turn the dough out of the 
mixing bowl while it’s still crumbly 
and knead in the last bit of flour 
by hand.
A sharp chef’s knife cuts cleanly through 
the once-baked logs. At this point the 
cookies are firm but not brittle.Biscotti shouldn’t change color during 
the second baking, so poke them to tell if 
they’re done. Press on the cake part (the 
nuts will burn you)—it should feel dry and 
offer some resistance.For small biscotti, shape the dough into 
long, narrow logs. For larger biscotti, make 
the logs wider and shorter.nougat glacé
M A K E S  8 C U P S ;  
S E RV E S  1 0  T O  1 2
FOR  THE  NOUGATINE
 1/2  cup sugar
 3   Tbs. water; more for wiping 
down the saucepan
 1/2   cup almonds, whole or sliced, 
toasted and skinned
 2 / 3   cup hazelnuts, toasted and 
skinned
FOR THE ITALIAN MERINGUE
 1 / 3  cup sugar
 2  Tbs. honey
 1/4  cup water
 3  egg whites
 1  Tbs. freshly squeezed lemon 
juice
 11/2   cups mixed dried fruit 
(cherries, cranberries, raisins, 
apricots, pineapples) or mixed 
candied fruit, chopped into 
small pieces and soaked for at 
least 1 hour in 1/4 cup Cointreau 
or other liqueur or brandy
 2  cups whipping cream, beaten 
to soft peaks
   Raspberry Coulis (recipe 
below)
   Candied orange zest, for 
garnish (optional)The dessert needs to freeze for at least 12 hours, so make it the day before  
you want to serve it. 
MAKE THE NOUGATINE
Lightly oil a baking sheet. In a sugar pan or a stainless-steel saucepan, com-
bine the sugar and water. Cook over medium heat until the sugar melts. Do 
not stir once the mixture has boiled. Brush the sides of the saucepan with a 
wet brush to remove any stray sugar crystals, which can burn. Cook until the 
mixture is a deep golden caramel. Add the nuts. Mix vigorously with a wooden 
spoon and stir until the nuts are completely coated. Pour the mixture onto  
the baking sheet and spread it out with a spatula. Be careful—cooked sugar 
is hot. Let the mixture cool. When completely cool, chop it with a sharp knife 
until the pieces are about the same size as the chopped fruit and reserve in a 
small bowl.
PREPARE THE MERINGUE
In a sugar pan or a stainless-steel saucepan, combine the sugar, honey, and 
water. Bring to a boil over high heat and cook, brushing down the sides of the 
pan with water to prevent crystals. Your goal is the hard-ball stage, about 
248°F , which should take about 20 minutes. When the sugar reaches about 
230°F , begin beating the egg whites (preferably in a stand mixer) until soft 
peaks form. Add the lemon juice and continue to beat until the whites are stiff 
but not grainy. Pour the hard-ball sugar syrup into the egg whites, avoiding the 
moving beaters and the side of the bowl. Mix continuously on high speed until 
the bottom of the mixing bowl feels cool, 10 to 15 minutes.
PUT IT ALL TOGETHER
1. Strain the soaked fruit and discard the excess liqueur. Fold half the chopped 
nougatine, half the fruit, and half the prepared whipped cream into the me-
ringue. Repeat with the remaining ingredients.
2. Pour the nougat glacé into an 8-cup bowl (from which to scoop quenelles), 
an 8-cup terrine (for slices), or individual molds. If using a terrine or molds, line 
with plastic wrap, with extra plastic hanging over the sides. Use the plastic to 
cover the top of the mold and to help pull the nougat glacé out of the mold 
after it’s been frozen. Cover with more plastic wrap and freeze for at least  
12 hours and up to 3 days. Serve with raspberry coulis and garnish with 
candied zest, if you like. —Roland Passot
PER SERVING: 340 CALORIES  |  4G PROTEIN  |  32G CAR B  |  22G TOT AL FA T  |  10G SA T FA T  |   
9G MONO FA T  |  2G POL Y FA T  |  55MG CHOL  |  35MG SODIUM  |  2G FIBER
238  D E S S E R T Sraspberry coulis
Y I E L D S  2 / 3  C U P
 6 oz.   (11/2 cups) very ripe rasp-
berries, or frozen, thawed
    Juice from 1/2 lemon
   SugarIn a blender, purée the raspberries with the lemon juice. Add sugar, if desired. 
Strain through a fine-mesh sieve. Cover with plastic wrap and keep chilled until 
ready to use. DE S S E R T S   239Nougat glacé isn’t difficult to make, but there are a few pieces of 
equipment that make the job even easier. 
•  A sugar pan—a heavy, unlined copper pot with a pour spout—
is ideal for making the sugar syrup needed for the meringue, 
though a heavy-based stainless-steel saucepan will also work.
•  A pastry brush is useful for washing down the sides of the pan 
as the sugar syrup cooks to prevent crystals from forming.
•  A candy thermometer is important to check the temperature 
of the sugar syrup.
•  A stand mixer is better than a handheld one because the egg 
whites and sugar syrup need to be mixed together while the 
beaters are moving and must mix until cooled, from 10 to 
15 minutes.A Few Tools Make Things E asy240  DE S S E R T Slemon curd fruit souffles
M A K E S  8 I N D I V I D U A L  SO U F F L é S
 1/4   cup confectioners’ sugar; 
more for the ramekins and for 
sprinkling 
   Lemon Sugar Syrup (recipe 
below)
 6   egg whites (about 3/4 cup)
 1 / 8   tsp. cream of tartar
   Lemon Curd Filling (recipe on 
the facing page)Soufflés taste best when still a bit moist and creamy inside. Overcooking 
makes the insides overly dry and, since the whites are already partially cooked 
by the sugar syrup, there’s no reason to fear that the eggs are undercooked. 
Once the soufflés are lightly browned and nicely risen, serve them immedi-
ately on small dessert plates. 
Butter 8 individual ramekins or straight-sided coffee cups; dust the buttered 
surface with confectioners’ sugar and gently tap out the excess. Heat the oven 
to 400°F and set the rack in the lower third of the oven.
MAKE THE ITALIAN MERINGUE
1. Cook the sugar syrup until it reaches 220°F on a candy thermometer. Start 
beating the egg whites and cream of tartar in a stand mixer on medium speed. 
Gradually increase the speed to the highest setting. When the whites form 
soft peaks, add the 1/4 cup confectioners’ sugar in a slow, steady sprinkle. Beat 
until the whites form stiff, shiny peaks. If this happens before the sugar syrup 
reaches 248°F , turn off the mixer.
2. Remove the sugar syrup from the heat as soon as it reaches 248°F . Turn the 
mixer back to the highest speed if you have turned it off. Pour the hot syrup 
between the bowl and the beaters in a slow, steady stream. Continue beating 
until the mixing bowl feels cool, about 10 minutes.
ASSEMBLE AND BAKE THE SOUFFLéS
1. Using a pastry bag or a spoon, fill the ramekins halfway with the meringue, 
spreading it evenly. Add about 1 Tbs. lemon curd filling to each ramekin. 
Lightly swirl the filling into the meringue with a knife. Fill the ramekins with 
more meringue to just below the rim and add the remaining filling. Divide the 
remaining meringue among the ramekins and, using a butter knife or small 
offset spatula, smooth the top of each soufflé. At this point, the soufflés can 
be refrigerated for up to 3 days or frozen for up to a week.
2. Set the soufflés on a baking sheet and bake until the tops are light brown, 
8 to 10 minutes. Remove them carefully from the oven and sprinkle with con-
fectioners’ sugar, if you like. —Laurann Claridge
PER SERVING: 300 CALORIES  |  5G PROTEIN  |  58G CAR B  |  6G TOT AL FA T  |  3G SA T FA T  |   
2G MONO FA T  |  1G POL Y FA T  |  165MG CHOL  |  65MG  SODIUM  |  0G FIBER
240  D E S S E R T Slemon sugar syrup
 11/4  cups sugar
 3/4   cup freshly squeezed lemon 
juiceCombine the sugar and lemon juice in a small heavy-based stainless-steel 
saucepan; bring to a boil. Begin the procedure for the meringue when the 
syrup reaches 220°F on a candy thermometer. 