P A S TA   65basic orecchiette
SE R V E S  4
 6  o z. (1 cup) semolina flour
 63/4  oz. (11/2 cups) unbleached  
all-purpose flour; more for 
shaping the dough
 2 / 3  cup warm waterThis dough comes out best if you work the 
water in very slowly; don’t try to bring in too 
much flour at one time. Flour amounts are 
listed by weight (ounces) and by volume 
(cups); use either measurement. 
1. In a bowl, whisk the flours together well. 
Mound the flour on a work surface, make a 
deep well in the center, and pour 2 Tbs. of 
the water in the center. With two fingers, 
stir in a little flour from the walls of the well. 
When the water is absorbed and a paste 
formed, repeat with more water until you 
have a soft but not sticky dough. 
2. Knead the dough on a lightly floured surface until it’s smooth and supple, 
7 to 8 minutes. If it crumbles during kneading, wet your hands to moisten 
the dough slightly. Cut off a golf ball-size chunk of dough; cover the rest with 
plastic wrap. Roll the chunk into a cylinder about 1 inch in diameter. With a very 
sharp knife, slice the cylinder into disks about 1 / 8 inch thick. 
3. Pick up a disk. If it’s squashed from cutting, squeeze it slightly between your 
thumb and index finger to return it to a circular shape. Put the disk in the palm 
of one hand and press down on it with the thumb of your other hand. Swivel 
your hand (not your thumb) twice to thin the center of the ear, leaving the 
rim a little thicker. If the dough sticks to your thumb, dip your thumb in a little 
flour as you work. Repeat with the rest of the dough. As you finish the disks, lay 
them on a clean dishtowel. When you’ve shaped an entire cylinder, sprinkle 
a little flour over the ears and repeat the process with a new chunk of dough. 
Use immediately, or dry the pasta for later use.
PER SERVING: 330 CALORIES  |  10G PROTEIN  |  67G CA RB  |  1G TOT AL FA T  |  0G SA T FA T  |   
0G MONO FA T  |  0.5G POL Y FA T  |  0MG CHOL  |  0MG SODIUM  |  3G FIBER
T o create fine shreds, stack leaves atop 
one another and roll into a tight tube. (For 
smaller leaves, bunch as tightly together 
as possible before cutting.) Cut the rolled 
leaves using a single swift, smooth stroke 
for each slice. The width is up to you. This 
is known as a chiffonade.
T o mince basil, turn the chiffonade slices 
(keeping them together with a gentle 
pinch) and make a few perpendicular 
cuts as wide or as narrow as you like. 
Don’t go back over the basil as you might 
when finely chopping parsley. Slicing and 
mincing basilfettuccine with artichokes, 
hazelnuts & cream
SE R V E S  4 
  Kosher salt 
 2  Tbs. unsalted butter
 2  Tbs. extra-virgin olive oil
 1  small yellow onion, minced
 4  large artichoke bottoms, 
halved, in lemon water  
(see p. 195)
  Freshly ground black pepper
 1  cup homemade chicken broth 
(or equal parts water and 
lower-salt canned broth)
 1  cup heavy cream
 1/2   cup coarsely chopped toasted 
hazelnuts
 2  Tbs. minced fresh flat-leaf 
parsley; more for garnish
 1  lb. dried fettuccineServe with a crisp salad and a fruity white wine like a Fume Blanc.
1. Put a large pot of salted water on to boil over high heat. Heat the butter and 
olive oil in a 12-inch skillet over moderately low heat. Add the onion and cook 
until softened, about 10 minutes. Meanwhile, cut each artichoke half into very 
thin wedges (about 8 per half). Return the wedges to the lemon water. When 
the onion is soft, drain the artichokes and add them to the skillet. Season with 
salt and pepper; stir to coat. Cover and reduce the heat to low. Cook until the 
artichokes are tender, 20 to 30 minutes. Check occasionally to be sure they’re 
not burning or sticking; adjust the heat accordingly and add a tablespoon or 
two of water if necessary to prevent burning. Add the broth, cream, hazelnuts, 
and 2 Tbs. parsley to the skillet and bring to a simmer over medium-high 
heat. Simmer until thickened slightly, 8 to 10 minutes. T aste and adjust the 
seasonings.
2. While the sauce is reducing, cook the pasta in the boiling water until al 
dente. Set aside 1 cup of the pasta water, drain the pasta, and return it to 
the warm pot. Add the sauce to the pasta and toss well. If the sauce is too 
thin, return the pot to medium heat and cook until the pasta absorbs most 
of it. If the pasta seems dry, moisten with some of the reserved water. Serve 
immediately in warm bowls, garnishing each portion with a little more parsley. 
—Janet Fletcher
PER SERVING: 920 CALORIES  |  34G PROTEIN  |  98G CA RB  |  46G TOT AL FA T  |  19G SA T FA T  |  
20G MONO FA T  |  4G POL Y FA T  |  95MG CHOL  |  680M G SODIUM  |  13G FIBER
P A S TA   67how to toast hazelnuts
Spread the nuts in a single layer on a baking sheet and toast in a 375°F oven until 
the skins are mostly split and the nuts are light golden brown (the skins will look 
darker) and fragrant, about 10 minutes. Don’t overtoast or the nuts will become 
bitter. Wrap the hot nuts in a clean dishtowel and let them sit for 5 to 10 min-
utes. Then vigorously rub the nuts against themselves in the towel to remove 
most of the skins. Try to get at least half of the skins off. This may take a lot of 
rubbing, so be persistent.spaghetti with creamy braised garlic and leeks
SE R V E S  4
 2  Tbs. unsalted butter
 1  Tbs. extra-virgin olive oil
 6  medium leeks (white and light 
green parts), halved and sliced 
crosswise into 1/2   -inch pieces 
(10 cups)
 10  medium cloves garlic, halved
   Kosher salt and freshly ground 
black pepper
 1/2     cup dry white wine
 1  cup lower-salt chicken broth 
 12  oz. dried spaghetti
 1/2     cup heavy cream
 1/2     oz. grated pecorino romano 
(1 / 3 cup)
 1/4     cup chopped fresh flat-leaf 
parsleyBraising the garlic in this recipe takes away some of its punch, rendering it 
sweet and ultratender.
1. Heat the butter and oil in a 12-inch skillet over medium-high heat until the 
butter has melted. Add the leeks, garlic, 1/2    tsp. salt, and 1/4    tsp. pepper and 
cook, stirring often, until the leeks begin to brown, 3 to 5 minutes. Add the wine 
and simmer until reduced by half, about 1 minute. Add the chicken broth and 
bring to a simmer. Reduce the heat to low and press a 12-inch-round piece of 
parchment over the leek mixture to cover completely. Cover the skillet and 
cook, stirring occasionally (you will have to lift the parchment), until the leeks 
are very soft but not falling apart and the garlic is very soft, about 40 minutes. 
2. Meanwhile, bring a large pot of well-salted water to a boil and cook the spa-
ghetti according to package directions until al dente. Drain, reserving 1/2    cup of 
the pasta cooking water.
3. Uncover the skillet and remove the parchment. Stir in the cream and cook, 
stirring occasionally, until the sauce thickens slightly, about 3 minutes. Add the 
cooked pasta and toss. If necessary, add the reserved pasta water 1 Tbs. at a 
time to make a silky sauce that clings to the pasta.
4. Off the heat, stir in the cheese and parsley. Season to taste with salt and 
pepper, and serve. —Samantha Seneviratne
PER SERVING: 650 CALORIES  |  17G PROTEIN  |  87G CA RB  |  24G TOT AL FA T  |  12G SA T FA T  |  
8G MONO FA T  |  2G POL Y FA T  |  60MG CHOL  |  540MG  SODIUM  |  6G FIBER
The flavor of a leek is like an 
onion but more herbaceous, 
though not like any herb in 
particular. Leeks add both 
sweetness and vegetable 
flavor, which is why they bring 
such depth and complexity 
to a dish.
Choosing
When buying leeks, look for 
firm, undamaged stalks and 
fresh-looking, brightly 
colored tops. The darker the 
tops, the older and tougher 
the leeks. You want leeks with 
as much white stalk as 
possible.
Storing
Wrapped in a damp paper 
towel and stored in a plastic 
bag in the refrigerator, leeks 
will last for at least a week.All about Leeks