turkey bolognese
M A K e S  5 1/2  C U P S
 1/2   lb. pancetta, finely diced
 1/4   cup finely chopped carrot
 1/4   cup finely chopped yellow 
onion
 1/4   cup finely chopped celery
 4   medium cloves garlic, minced
 11/2   tsp. fennel seeds, lightly 
crushed
 1/4   to 1/2 tsp. crushed red pepper 
flakes
 1   28-oz. can diced tomatoes, 
with juice 
 1  cup dry white wine
 1  cup homemade turkey stock 
or lower-salt canned chicken 
broth
 1  cup whole milk
 1/2  cup packed fresh flat-leaf 
parsley 
 2  dried bay leaves
  Kosher salt
 4  cups medium-diced roast 
turkey For a spin on the classic, we’ve replaced the customary ground meat with 
diced roast turkey. There’s enough of this flavorful sauce to coat 1 lb. of your 
favorite pasta. Try it with a sturdy shape like rigatoni or penne. For a smoky 
flavor, substitute bacon for the pancetta. 
1. Heat a wide, heavy-duty 6- to 8-quart pot over medium heat. Add the 
pancetta and cook until its fat begins to render, 2 to 3 minutes. Add the carrot, 
onion, celery, and garlic and cook until the vegetables begin to brown, 4 to  
6 minutes. Stir in the fennel seeds and pepper flakes.
2. Add the tomatoes and white wine. Boil for 2 to 3 minutes, then add the 
broth, milk, parsley, and bay leaves. Stir well, return to a boil, and season with 
a little salt. (Underseason, as the sauce will reduce and concentrate the salt.) 
Lower the heat to medium low and simmer until reduced by about one-third, 
30 to 40 minutes.
3. Add the turkey, raise the heat to medium, and bring to a boil. Reduce the 
heat to medium low and simmer until the flavors are fully developed and the 
sauce is thick and rich, 10 to 15 minutes. Discard the bay leaves and season to 
taste with salt. —Maria Helm Sinskey
PER 1 CUP: 420 CALORIES  |  32G PROTEIN  |  12G CAR B  |  23G TOT AL FA T   |  8G SA T FA T  |  
9G MONO FA T  |  3.5G POL Y FA T  |  100MG CHOL  |  1,980MG SODIUM  |  1G FIBERclassic meat lasagne
M A K e S  T H r e e  4 - S e r v I N G 
L A S A G N e S
 2  Tbs. plus 1 / 3 cup olive oil
 2  lb. mild (sweet) Italian sau-
sage, casing removed and 
broken into pieces
 8  cloves garlic, peeled and 
slightly crushed
 2  large onions, finely chopped
 11/2      cups dry red wine (such as 
Chianti)
 4  28-oz. cans (or three 35-oz. 
cans) crushed tomatoes 
(about 14 cups total)
 2  Tbs. dried oregano
 2  tsp. dried thyme
 1  Tbs. chopped fresh rosemary, 
or 2 tsp. dried
 1  tsp. fennel seeds, crushed
 11/2     tsp. salt 
 1/2      tsp. freshly ground black 
pepper 
 1  Tbs. sugar, or to taste
 3  large eggs
 11/2      cups freshly grated 
Parmesan cheese, preferably 
Parmigiano-reggiano 
 32   oz. ricotta
   Large handful of fresh basil 
leaves, washed well and 
chopped
 21/2      lb. fresh mozzarella, sliced as 
thinly as possible
 1  lb. instant (no-boil) lasagna 
noodlesPop the mozzarella in the freezer for a few minutes before slicing; the firmer 
cheese will be easier to slice thinly. 
1. In a heavy-based pot, heat the 2 Tbs. olive oil over medium-high heat. Add 
the sausage and brown it all over, breaking it up into small pieces with a wood-
en spoon and stirring, 10 to 12 minutes. Remove the sausage with a slotted 
spoon and reserve. Pour off most of the fat, but leave some behind for flavor. 
2. T o the pot, add 1 / 3 cup of olive oil and the garlic and heat over medium-high 
heat until the garlic just begins to turn light brown, about 5 minutes. Remove 
and discard the garlic immediately, leaving the oil in the pot. Add the onions to 
the pot and cook, stirring frequently, until translucent, 5 to 6 minutes. Return 
the sausage to the pot. Add the red wine and cook until it has reduced by at 
least half, about 10 minutes. 
3. Add the crushed tomatoes and stir in the oregano, thyme, rosemary, fennel 
seeds, salt, pepper, and sugar. Reduce the heat to medium low and cook to 
blend and develop the flavors, about 30 minutes. T aste for seasoning. You 
should have about 16 cups of sauce.
4. Meanwhile, in a large bowl, beat the eggs and add the Parmesan. Beat in the 
ricotta cheese. Season with salt and pepper and fold in the chopped basil.
5. Heat the oven to 400°F . T o make three lasagne of four layers each, begin 
by lightly oiling three 9x9x2- or 8x8x2-inch metal or ceramic pans (dispos-
able pans are also fine). Cover the bottom of each pan lightly with some of 
the sauce. Lay down a layer of pasta in each of the three pans. Spread enough 
of the ricotta cheese mixture on top of the pasta to cover, about 1/2    cup. T op 
the ricotta with enough sauce to cover it completely, about 1/2    cup. Cover with 
another layer of pasta and ladle more sauce over that, followed by enough 
mozzarella cheese to cover, enough ricotta cheese to cover, and some more 
sauce. Continue with two more layers in that order: pasta, sauce, mozzarella, 
ricotta, and sauce. Finish with a layer of pasta, some sauce, some mozzarella 
cheese, and a final light layer of sauce. You should be able to easily get four 
layers into each pan; if you have extra components, go ahead and add another 
layer to one or more of the lasagne. Don’t worry if the height of the lasagne 
exceeds the pan; it settles as it bakes. Save any remaining sauce to serve with 
the lasagne.
6. Seal the pans with aluminum foil, tented so it doesn’t stick to the cheese. 
Bake until the edges are bubbling and a knife inserted into the center of 
each lasagne comes out very hot, 40 to 50 minutes. Let sit for 15 minutes 
before serving or cool completely on a rack before freezing. Defrost frozen 
lasagne overnight in the refrigerator and then bake at 400°F for about 1 hour. 
—Clifford Wright
PER SERVING: 920 CALORIES  |  63G PROTEIN  |  57G CA RB  |  51G TOT AL FA T  |  24G SA T FA T  |  
20G MONO FA T  |  5G POL Y FA T  |  17MG CHOL  |  1,48 0MG SODIUM  |  7G FIBER
132  P A S TA