butternut squash risotto with 
bacon and sage 
S E R V E S  6  A S  A  F I R S T  C O U R S E , 
4  A S  A  M A I N  C O U R S E
 1  quart homemade or lower-salt 
chicken broth; more as needed
 1/2   cup dry white wine
 2  Tbs. olive oil
 10  large fresh sage leaves
 4  slices bacon, cut crosswise 
into thirds
 2  medium shallots, minced 
(about 1/4 cup)
 2  cups 1/4-inch-diced butternut 
squash
 11/2   cups arborio or other risotto 
rice, such as carnaroli or 
vialone nano
 1/2   cup freshly grated 
Parmigiano-Reggiano
   Kosher salt and freshly ground 
black pepperThe creaminess of the squash is 
the perfect complement to the 
creamy rice in this classic dish.
1. Combine the chicken broth and 
wine in a small saucepan and set 
over medium heat. In a medium 
(3-quart) saucepan, heat the oil 
over medium heat. Add the sage 
leaves and fry, turning once, until 
they’ve turned dark green in most 
places, about 1 minute total. Don’t brown. With a fork, transfer to a plate lined 
with paper towels to drain. Put the bacon in the saucepan and cook, stirring 
occasionally, until nicely browned, 5 to 7 minutes. Transfer the bacon to the 
plate with the sage.
2. Add the shallots to the saucepan and cook, stirring with a wooden spoon, 
until softened, about 1 minute. Add the squash and rice and cook, stirring, for 
1 minute. Ladle in enough of the hot broth mixture to just cover the rice. Cook, 
stirring frequently, until the broth is mostly absorbed. Add another ladleful 
of broth and continue cooking, stirring and adding more ladlefuls of broth as 
the previous additions are absorbed, until the rice is tender with just a slightly 
toothsome quality, about 25 minutes. As the risotto cooks, adjust the heat 
so that it bubbles gently. The broth mixture needn’t be boiling; it should just 
be hot. If you use all the broth and wine before the rice gets tender, use more 
broth but not more wine.
3. Set aside the nicest-looking sage leaves as a garnish (1 leaf per serving). 
Crumble half of the bacon and the remaining sage leaves into the risotto. 
Stir in the Parmigiano. Season to taste with salt and pepper. Crumble the 
remaining bacon over each serving and garnish with a sage leaf.  
—Jennifer Armentrout
PER SERVING: 350 CALORIES  |  13G PROTEIN  |  51G CA RB  |  10G TOT AL FA T  |  3G SA T FA T  |   
5G MONO FA T  |  1.5G POL Y FA T  |  10MG CHOL  |  390 MG SODIUM  |  2G FIBER
P O L E N TA  &  R I S O T T O   197All about Butternut Squash
The finely grained, deep orange flesh of butternut squash has a rich, full, nutty-sweet flavor. Butter-
nuts typically weigh between 1 and 2 lb. Choose squash that feel solid and heavy. The skin should be 
hard, with no signs of softness.
Like most other varieties of winter squash, butternut will keep for a month or longer stored in a 
cool, dry place. Don’t store squash for long at temperatures lower than 50°F , though, because they 
deteriorate. Once the squash has been cut open, it should be wrapped tightly in plastic, refrigerated, 
and used within 4 days.
T o cut open a butternut, use a large, sharp knife and watch where your fingers are placed. Slice into 
halves or rounds and then into the size called for in your recipe. 
saffron and shrimp risotto 
with scallions 
S E R V E S  6  A S  A  M A I N  C O U R S E
 7  cups fish broth 
 1/4   cup plus 2 to 3 Tbs. extra-
virgin olive oil
 2  cups chopped onion
  Kosher salt
 2  cups short-grain risotto rice, 
such as arborio or carnaroli
 1  cup dry white wine
 1/2   tsp. saffron threads, steeped 
in 1/2 cup hot water for at least 
5 minutes
 1  lb. medium shrimp (51 to  
60 per lb.), peeled and 
deveined
 3  to 4 Tbs. thinly sliced scallions 
(white and green parts)
   Freshly ground black pepperOne of the secrets to risotto? Stir often. Frequent stirring will prevent released 
starches from scorching and blend the flavoring ingredients.
1. Bring the broth almost to a boil in a large pot. Reduce the heat to very low; 
the broth should stay hot but not simmer.
2. Heat 1/4 cup of the oil over medium heat in a heavy-d uty 3- to 4-quart straight-
sided sauté pan at least 10 inches wide or in a similar-size Dutch oven. Add  
the onion and 1/2 tsp. salt and cook slowly, stirring frequently with a wooden 
spoon until softened, 8 to 10 minutes. Add 1/2 cup water, lower the heat to 
medium low, and continue cooking until the water is completely gone and the 
onion is soft and glistening but not browned, another 5 to 10 minutes.
3. Add the rice and raise the heat to medium. Cook, stirring constantly, to coat 
the rice with the oil, about 3 minutes. The toasted rice should still be white and 
glistening, but you should hear a clicking sound when you stir it. Pour in the 
wine and cook, stirring constantly, until it’s mostly absorbed, 2 to 3 minutes.
4. Stir the saffron and its soaking liquid into the rice, and cook, stirring, until the 
liquid is mostly absorbed.
5. Ladle 11/2 to 2 cups broth to barely cover the rice and stir constantly. Add 
1/2 tsp. salt, adjust the heat to maintain a gentle simmer, and keep stirring. 
When all the liquid has been absorbed—and the rice is dry enough that your 
spoon leaves a trail showing the bottom of the pot—ladle in another cup 
of broth, again stirring until it’s absorbed. Continue adding broth in 1-cup 
increments, always stirring, until the rice is nearly but not fully al dente; this is 
usually 12 to 16 minutes after the first addition of liquid. When the risotto is a 
few minutes away from al dente, stir in the shrimp. 
6. After you’ve added 5 cups of liquid (16 to 20 minutes from the first liquid 
addition), taste the rice to determine if it’s al dente and pleasantly creamy and 
the shrimp is opaque (cut through one to check). If it is, remove it immediately 
from the heat. Otherwise, let it cook a little longer, incorporating more liquid 
(up to a total of 7 cups). Stir in the remaining 2 to 3 Tbs. oil and the scallions 
and add salt and pepper to taste. Serve immediately. —Lidia Bastianich
PER SERVING: 550 CALORIES  |  28G PROTEIN  |  64G CA RB  |  17G TOT AL FA T  |  5G SA T FA T  |   
9G MONO FA T  |  2.5G POL Y FA T  |  125MG CHOL  |  61 0MG SODIUM  |  2G FIBER
P O L E N TA  &  R I S O T T O   199