parsnip risotto with pancetta and sage
S E R V E S  4  T O  6
  Kosher salt
 11/2      lb. medium parsnips, peeled, 
cored, and cut into medium 
dice (21/2    cups)
 1/4      cup extra-virgin olive oil
   Freshly ground black pepper
 3  oz. thinly sliced pancetta, cut 
into 1/2   -inch-wide strips (about 
1 cup)
 3  Tbs. roughly chopped fresh 
sage
 3  medium cloves garlic, roughly 
chopped
 1  medium yellow onion, cut into 
small dice
 2  cups arborio rice
   Pinch of crumbled saffron 
(optional)
 6  cups lower-salt chicken broth
 1/2      cup dry white wine
 2  Tbs. unsalted butter
 2  oz. freshly grated Parmigiano-
Reggiano; more for servingParsnips are sweet and earthy, with a touch of spice, making the perfect 
counterpart to salty pancetta.
1. Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil. Add the parsnips and boil 
until firm-tender, 3 to 5 minutes. Drain and spread on a rimmed baking sheet 
to cool to room temperature.
2. Heat 2 Tbs. of the olive oil in a large cast-iron skillet over medium-high heat. 
Add the parsnips, a pinch of salt, and a few grinds of pepper and cook, stirring 
occasionally, until softened and lightly browned, about 4 minutes. Add the 
pancetta and cook until sizzling and crisp, about 2 minutes. Add the sage and 
garlic and cook, stirring frequently, until the garlic is fragrant and the sage is 
starting to crisp, about 2 minutes more. Set aside.
3. Heat the remaining 2 Tbs. olive oil in an 11- to 12-inch straight-sided sauté 
pan over medium-high heat. Add the onion, a small pinch of salt, and a few 
grinds of pepper and cook, stirring occasionally, until beginning to soften, 
about 5 minutes.
4. Add the rice, 2 tsp. salt, and the saffron (if using), stirring well to coat. Add 
2 cups of the broth and the wine; simmer, stirring, until the liquid is completely 
absorbed, 3 to 4 minutes. Continue adding the broth in 1-cup increments, 
stirring and adjusting the heat to maintain a brisk simmer and letting each 
addition be almost absorbed before adding the next. The risotto is done when 
the rice is nearly but not fully tender (al dente) and still a little soupy (this 
usually takes 14 to 16 minutes after the first addition of liquid). You may not 
use all the broth, but you should use at least 4 cups.
5. Fold the parsnip mixture into the risotto. Add the butter and Parmigiano and 
stir gently to incorporate. Season to taste with salt and pepper. Serve sprin-
kled with more grated Parmigiano. —David T anis
PER SERVING: 590 CALORIES  |  17G PROTEIN  |  81G CA RB  |  22G TOT AL FA T  |  7G SA T FA T  |  
11G MONO FA T  |  2.5G POL Y FA T  |  25MG CHOL  |  99 0MG SODIUM  |  6G FIBER
200  P O L E N TA  &  R I S O T T Ohow to core 
parsnips
After trimming the ends and peeling 
the parsnip, quarter it lengthwise. 
Hold a sharp paring knife parallel to 
the cutting board and slowly run the 
knife between the core and the tender 
outer part of the parsnip. The core 
curves with the shape of the parsnip, 
so you won’t be able to get it all, but 
that’s fine. Just remove as much as 
you can without sacrificing too much 
of the tender part.
PO L E N TA  &  R I S O T T O   201All about Parsnips
Grown in cold climates, parsnips are usually harvested in the fall and, like carrots, stored in cool root 
cellars. However, frost will convert their starches to sugar, concentrating their sweet flavor, so many 
home gardeners and small growers keep their parsnips in the ground and dig them as needed through 
winter and early spring. That’s why you’re likely to find the sweetest parsnips at a farmstand or 
farmers’ market.
While there are several varieties of parsnips, most markets don’t usually indicate which they’re 
selling, mainly because the differences in flavor, texture, and appearance are minimal. Your best bet 
is to choose what looks freshest. Here are some tips:
What to look for
Parsnips should be firm and of uniform color; blemishes can be a sign of decay. Opt for medium 
parsnips, as very large ones can be woody and bitter. 
How to store
Wrap unwashed parsnips in paper towels or newspaper and store them in a loosely closed plastic bag 
in the crisper drawer of the refrigerator for up to 2 weeks.Black Bean Soup  
with Sweet Potatoes  
(recipe on page 5)
balsamic-glazed brussels sprouts  
with pancetta  
(recipe on p. 209)sides
sautéed broccoli raab with balsamic 
vinegar  p. 204
green beans and radicchio with 
shaved parmigiano  p. 205
gratin of sautéed cauliflower , tomato, 
pine nuts & saffron  p. 206
cannellini beans with tuna and pickled 
cipollini onions  p. 207
grilled eggplant with olive, orange & 
anchovy vinaigrette  p. 208
balsamic-glazed brussels sprouts 
with pancetta  p. 209
glazed carrots with marsala  p. 210
sautéed fresh porcini  p. 211
fava beans with prosciutto, mint & 
garlic  p. 212roasted green beans with lemon, 
pine nuts & parmigiano  p. 213
sautéed escarole with raisins, pine 
nuts & capers  p. 214
giardiniera  p. 216
long-cooked green beans with  
oregano  p. 216
acini di pepe pasta with zucchini and 
peppers  p. 217
roasted broccoli with lemon and  
pecorino  p. 218
cauliflower sformato  p. 219
fregola with grill-marinated red 
peppers and zucchini  p. 220
cannellini beans with lemon, roasted 
red peppers & bacon  p. 221sautéed broccoli raab with  
balsamic vinegar 
SER V E S  6 TO 8
 1/4   cup aged balsamic vinegar
  Kosher salt
 2   large bunches broccoli  
raab (21/2 lb.), thick stems 
trimmed, and leaves and  
florets rinsed well
 4  medium cloves garlic, lightly 
crushed and peeled
 3  Tbs. extra-virgin olive oil
 4  oil-packed anchovy fillets, 
finely chopped
 1/4   tsp. crushed red pepper flakes
   Freshly ground black pepperMildly bitter broccoli raab is 
adored in Italy —and has been 
gaining fans in the U.S. Here 
it gets a sweet, salty, spicy 
topping.
1. In a small  saucepan, boil the 
vinegar over medium-high  
heat until reduced by half, about 
4 minutes. Set aside.
2. Bring a large pot of well-salted water to a boil over high heat. Have a large 
bowl of ice water ready. Blanch the broccoli raab in the boiling water for  
3 minutes (the water needn’t return to a boil). Drain it and transfer to the 
ice water to cool. Drain well and gently squeeze the broccoli raab to remove 
excess water.
3. Heat the garlic and oil in a large skillet over medium heat until the garlic 
begins to turn golden, 2 minutes; remove and discard the garlic. Add the 
anchovies, mashing them with the back of a wooden spoon until fragrant,  
30 seconds. Add the red pepper flakes and cook, stirring, for 5 to 10 seconds. 
Add the broccoli raab and cook, stirring often, until tender and heated 
through, 3 to 4 minutes. Drizzle with the vinegar and season to taste with salt 
and pepper. Transfer to a platter and serve. —Melissa Speck
PER SERVING: 90 CALORIES  |  5G PROTEIN  |  6G CARB  |  6G TOT AL FA T  |  1G SA T FA T  | 
7G MONO FA T  |  1G POL Y FA T  |  0MG CHOL  |  260MG SODIUM  |  4G FIBER
204  S I D E SYou can reduce the 
vinegar and blanch 
the broccoli raab up 
to 6 hours ahead. 
Leave the vinegar 
at room tempera-
ture and refrigerate 
the broccoli raab, 
returning it to room 
temperature before 
finishing the dish.Make Ahead
Also called broccoli rabe or rapini, broccoli raab is more closely 
related to turnips than broccoli, but it looks and tastes similar to 
broccoli. It can be tough and stringy, so it’s best when thoroughly 
cooked and chopped before serving.What Is Broccoli Raab?