spaghetti with arugula,  
tomato & ricotta salata
SE R V E S  4 T O  6
 1  lb. dried spaghetti
 1/2   cup extra-virgin olive oil
   Salt and freshly ground black 
pepper
 2  tsp. dried oregano
 3  beefsteak tomatoes, cut into  
8 to 10 wedges each
 6  oz. arugula (about 7 cups, 
loosely packed), washed, and 
tough stems removed 
 5  oz. grated ricotta salata The sharp sheep’s milk flavor of ricotta salata is unbeatable with arugula. 
Grate it slowly on a grater with large holes to get long strands of cheese. 
Cook the spaghetti in plenty of salted boiling water until al dente. Drain well, 
but don’t rinse. While it’s still hot, put the pasta in a large bowl and toss it with 
the oil, salt and pepper to taste, the oregano, and tomatoes. Gently toss in the 
arugula. Divide among bowls, top with the grated ricotta salata, and serve 
immediately.  —T ony Mantuano
PER SERVING: 460 CALORIES  |  15G PROTEIN  |  63G CA RB  |  16G TOT AL FA T  |  5G SA T FA T  |   
8G MONO FA T  |  2G POL Y FA T  |  20MG CHOL  |  370MG  SODIUM  |  4G FIBER
86  P A S TAP A S TA   87tubettini with celery sauce
SE R V E S  4 T O  6
 2  bunches celery (about 13/4 lb. 
each)
 1 / 3  cup extra-virgin olive oil  
or to taste
 4  scallions (white and green 
parts), sliced thin
 2  cloves garlic, minced
 1  lb. tubettini or other small 
pasta
 3  Tbs. chopped fresh flat-leaf 
parsley
 1/2  tsp. crushed red pepper flakes 
or to taste
 3/4 tsp. salt
 1/4  tsp. freshly ground black  
pepperCut the celery the same size as 
the pasta to give the dish a uni-
form look. T omato or red pepper 
makes a delicious addition. 
1. Remove the tough outer celery 
ribs and reserve for another use. 
Rinse the hearts well and dry 
them. Chop the celery leaves and 
wrap them in a moist paper towel. 
Chop the inner ribs approximately 
the same size as the pasta. You 
should have about 33/4 cups 
chopped celery.
2. Heat the olive oil in a large frying pan over medium heat. Sauté the scallions 
and celery until tender but still firm, about 10 minutes. Stir in the garlic and 
cook until fragrant, 1 or 2 minutes longer. Remove from the pan and keep 
warm.
3. In a large pot of boiling salted water, cook the pasta until al dente; drain but 
do not rinse. In a large serving bowl, combine the pasta, celery sauce, chopped 
celery leaves, parsley, red pepper flakes, salt, and pepper. T oss well and serve 
immediately.  —Erica DeMane
PER SERVING: 440 CALORIES  |  12G PROTEIN  |  67G CA RB  |  14G TOT AL FA T  |  2G SA T FA T  |   
10G MONO FA T  |  2G POL Y FA T  |  0MG CHOL  |  490MG  SODIUM  |  6G FIBER
fettuccine with tomatoes,  
capers & olives
SE R V E S  4
 11/2   lb. ripe tomatoes, peeled, 
seeded, and chopped
 4  cloves garlic, finely chopped
 1  lb. fettuccine
 1/4   cup extra-virgin olive oil
 8  imported black olives, pitted 
and coarsely chopped
 8  imported green olives, pitted 
and coarsely chopped
 2  Tbs. capers, rinsed and 
chopped if large
 3  Tbs. chopped fresh flat-leaf 
parsley
   Salt and freshly ground black 
pepperThis recipe depends on juicy, 
flavorful tomatoes. Big, fruity, 
green Cerignola olives are less 
briny than other green olives and 
make a delicious difference. 
1. Toss the tomatoes and garlic 
together and drain them in a 
strainer while you continue with 
the recipe. 
2. Bring a large pot of well-salted water to a boil and cook the fettuccine until 
al dente. Drain it well, return it to the pot, and toss it with the tomato mixture. 
T oss again with the olive oil, olives, capers, parsley, and salt and pepper to 
taste. Let sit for 3 to 5 minutes to absorb the flavors before serving.   
—Clifford Wright
PER SERVING: 670 CALORIES  |  27G PROTEIN  |  87G CA RB  |  25G TOT AL FA T  |  3G SA T FA T  |   
17G MONO FA T  |  3G POL Y FA T  |  0MG CHOL  |  960MG  SODIUM  |  5G FIBER
88  P A S TAFor many sauces, you want just the flavorful meat of the tomato. The tough peels and bitter seeds should  
be discarded before you begin.how to peel and seed tomatoes 
Core the tomatoes and then blanch them 
in a large pot of boiling water. Remove the 
tomatoes after a minute or two and imme-
diately transfer them to a bowl of ice water. When the tomatoes are cool enough to 
handle, simply peel away the skin. Loosened 
from their bath in the boiling water, the skins 
will slip right off.Cut the tomatoes in half and squeeze 
out the seeds. Don’t worry about crushing 
the tomatoes; they’ll be chopped for 
the recipe. P A S TA   89cavatelli with arugula and 
ricotta salata 
SE R V E S  4
 5  Tbs. extra-virgin olive oil
 3/4  cup chopped imported black 
olives, such as Gaeta or 
Kalamata
 1  Tbs. freshly squeezed lemon 
juice; more to taste
 3  large cloves garlic, finely 
chopped
 41/2  tsp. fresh thyme
   Kosher salt and freshly ground 
black pepper 
 1/4  tsp. cayenne; more to taste
 1  lb. dried cavatelli
 1  large bunch arugula (about 
8 oz.), rinsed, dried well, and 
coarsely chopped
 1  cup (about 7 oz.) grated 
ricotta salata or fetaGaeta olives have a tangy yet 
mild flavor. 
In a small bowl, whisk together the 
olive oil, olives, lemon juice, garlic, 
thyme, black pepper to taste, and 
cayenne and set aside. Bring a 
large pot of well-salted water to a 
boil and cook the cavatelli until al 
dente. Drain it well and return it to 
the pan. Add the arugula and the 
olive oil mixture, folding gently until the ingredients are combined. Let sit until 
the arugula has wilted, about 3 minutes. Sprinkle with the ricotta salata just 
before serving. —Clifford Wright 
PER SERVING: 800 CALORIES  |  24G PROTEIN  |  99G CA RB  |  33G TOT AL FA T  |  11G SA T FA T  |   
18G MONO FA T  |  3G POL Y FA T  |  45MG CHOL  |  790M G SODIUM  |  5G FIBER
You’ll always be able to whip up easy, fast pastas if you keep 
ingredients like these on hand:What to Include in a Well-Stocked Pantry 
•  extra-virgin 
olive oil
•  Parmesan 
cheese
• prosciutto
• capers
•  black and green 
olives• anchovies
• dried chiles
• sardines
• canned tuna
• pine nuts
• almonds
• oregano• thyme
• fennel seeds
•  sun-dried 
tomatoes
•  dried pasta of 
various shapes 
and sizes
