bolognese borlotti beans
M A K e S  6  C U P S ;  S e r v e S  4
 1  cup dried cranberry or  
pinto beans
 2  to 4 cups homemade chicken 
or vegetable stock or lower-
salt canned broth
 1  tsp. salt; more to taste
 2  Tbs. olive oil
 1/2  medium onion, coarsely 
chopped
 2  cloves garlic, minced
 12  oz. fresh fettuccine, cut diago-
nally into 2-inch lengths
 1/2  cup coarsely chopped  
sun-dried tomatoes (drained 
if packed in oil)
 2  oz. prosciutto, sliced thin and 
cut into 1/2-inch strips
 1/2  cup coarsely chopped fresh 
flat-leaf parsley leaves
 1/4 cup grated Parmesan
   Freshly ground black pepper
   Small block of Parmesan, for 
shaving (optional)The dappled-pink cranberry 
beans (also called borlotti or 
Roman beans) in this dish are 
native to Italy. If you can’t find 
them, use pinto beans. 
1. Rinse the beans, pick them 
over well, and put them in a large 
saucepan with just enough water 
to cover. Bring to a boil, remove 
from the heat, cover, and allow 
to sit for 1 hour. Add more water 
if necessary to cover the beans. 
2. Heat the oven to 350°F . Drain the beans and put them in an ovenproof cas-
serole. Add enough stock to cover them, cover the casserole with a lid or foil, 
and bake the beans until tender, 2 to 21/2 hours. After 1 hour, add 1 tsp. salt and 
check the stock level. The beans should still be covered by stock; add more  
if necessary. When the beans are tender, strain off the liquid and measure  
it; add enough stock to make 2 cups. Recombine the liquid and beans and  
set aside.
3. Heat the olive oil in a frying pan over medium heat. Sauté the onion until soft 
and translucent, 5 to 7 minutes. Stir in the garlic and sauté for 2 to 3 minutes. 
Add the beans and their liquid to the sautéed onion and garlic. Simmer for 5 to 
10 minutes to combine the flavors; remove from the heat.
4. Meanwhile, cook the pasta until tender, drain it, and add it immediately to 
the beans. Stir in the tomatoes and prosciutto, reserving some of each for gar-
nish. T oss with the parsley and grated Parmesan. Add salt and pepper to taste. 
5. Arrange the pasta and beans in a serving bowl. T op with the reserved 
tomatoes and prosciutto. With a sharp knife or vegetable peeler, shave thin 
curls from the block of Parmesan and scatter them on top. Serve immediately. 
—Rosina Tinari Wilson
PER SERVING: 580 CALORIES  |  32G PROTEIN  |  83G CA RB  |  14G TOT AL FA T  |  3G SA T FA T  |   
7G MONO FA T  |  2G POL Y FA T  |  80MG CHOL  |  1,500 MG SODIUM  |  13G FIBER
94  P A S TApasta shells with chickpeas, fennel,  
tomatoes & prosciutto
S e r v e S  4
 4  salt-packed anchovies, boned 
and rinsed (or 8 oil-cured 
anchovies)
 16  large fresh basil leaves, 
washed and thoroughly dried 
 4  large cloves garlic, peeled
 5  Tbs. extra-virgin olive oil
 1  lb. medium-sized ribbed pasta 
shells
 11/2   cups cooked, drained 
chickpeas 
 1  small bulb fennel, trimmed 
and coarsely chopped (about 
2 cups)
 12  cherry tomatoes, cut into 
quarters or eighths, depending 
on size
 1/4  lb. sliced prosciutto, cut into 
wide strips
  Freshly ground black pepper 
 1/2   cup grated Parmesan 
(optional)Prosciutto can be salty, so taste it before you add the entire amount. Good-
quality canned chickpeas work just fine in this recipe. 
Finely chop the anchovies, basil, and garlic and transfer to a small mixing bowl. 
Whisk in the olive oil and set aside. Bring a large pot of well-salted water to a 
boil and cook the shells. When the pasta is almost al dente, add the chickpeas 
to warm them. As soon as the pasta is al dente, drain it and the chickpeas well. 
Pour the olive oil mixture into the pot, add the pasta and chickpeas, and toss 
thoroughly with the fennel, tomatoes, and prosciutto. Season with pepper 
and let the pasta rest for 3 to 5 minutes, loosely covered. T oss with the grated 
Parmesan, if you like, and serve. —Clifford Wright
PER SERVING: 850 CALORIES  |  36G PROTEIN  |  118G C ARB  |  26G TOT AL FA T  |  4G SA T FA T  |   
16G MONO FA T  |  4G POL Y FA T  |  35MG CHOL  |  1,39 0MG SODIUM  |  11G FIBER
P A S TA   95sausage and broccoli raab ravioli  
with roasted tomato sauce
M A K e S  A B O U T  3 0  r Av I O L I 
( M O r e  O r  F e W e r  D e P e N D -
I N G  O N  T H e  S I Z e  A N D  D O U G H 
T H I C K N e S S )  A N D  4  C U P S 
S A U C e ;  S e r v e S  4
FOr THe SAUCe
 4  lb. fresh plum tomatoes 
(about 22), quartered
 3  medium red onions (about 1 lb. 
total), very coarsely diced
 16  cloves garlic, peeled and 
crushed 
 2  to 3 fresh jalapeños, quartered 
 1  Tbs. dried oregano
 1/2  cup extra-virgin olive oil
   Salt and freshly ground black 
pepper
FOr THe FILLING
 1/2   lb. (1/2 bunch) broccoli raab
 2  Tbs. extra-virgin olive oil
 1/2  lb. sweet Italian sausage  
(casings removed), crumbled 
into bits
 1   small clove garlic, chopped
 1/4  tsp. crushed red pepper flakes
   Salt and freshly ground black 
pepper to taste
 11/4   oz. grated pecorino romano  
(1/2 cup)
 1/4  lb. smoked or regular mozza-
rella, cut into 1/4-inch dice  
(3/4 cup)
 1  lb. ravioli Pasta Dough (recipe 
p. 98)
 1  large egg yolk, lightly beaten 
   Semolina flour or fine corn-
meal, for dusting the pan
   Grated pecorino romano,  
for garnishThe roasted tomato sauce can be made several days ahead, and the filling 
can be made a day ahead. 
MAKe THe SAUCe
1. Heat the oven to 450°F . In a nonreactive roasting pan (not aluminum), 
combine the tomatoes, onion, crushed garlic, jalapeños, and oregano. Add the 
olive oil, salt, and pepper, and toss. Roast, stirring occasionally, until the onion 
and tomatoes are soft and slightly charred, about 11/2 hours.
2. Let the mixture cool and then pass it through a food mill fitted with a 
medium blade (or else through a medium-mesh sieve) to remove the seeds 
and cores. The sauce may be slightly chunky. If you want it smoother, purée it 
in a blender or food processor. T aste for salt and set aside.
MAKe THe FILLING
1. Boil about 4 cups salted water in a pot, add the broccoli raab, and parboil for 
2 to 3 minutes. Drain, reserving ¼ cup of the cooking water. Chop the broccoli 
raab into very small pieces.
2. Heat the olive oil on medium high in a heavy-based frying pan. Add the 
sausage, breaking it up with a spoon into very small pieces. Add the garlic, red 
pepper flakes, broccoli raab, salt, and pepper. Add the ¼ cup of reserved 
broccoli raab cooking liquid and simmer until the sausage is cooked and the 
broccoli raab is tender, about 4 minutes. There should be no more than 2 Tbs. 
liquid left in the pan. Transfer to a bowl and let cool. The cooled mixture 
should be moist but not wet, so if there’s excess liquid in the bowl, drain it off. 
Mix in the 1¼ oz. pecorino and the diced mozzarella. 
rOLL OUT AND STUFF THe PASTA DOUGH
1. Using the sausage and broccoli raab filling, follow the photos and captions 
on p. 98 to fill and shape the ravioli. If you’re not cooking the ravioli right away, 
transfer them to a pan lined with waxed paper and sprinkled with semolina 
flour or cornmeal (don’t let them touch) and refrigerate for up to a day or 
freeze, wrapped, for up to a month.
2. When ready to serve, bring a pot of salted water to a boil. Gently slide the 
chilled or frozen ravioli into the water and cook until they float and are tender, 
3 to 5 minutes. Meanwhile, reheat the tomato sauce. T aste for salt and pepper. 
If the sauce is too thick, add a little water from the pasta pot.
3. Drain the ravioli and toss with the sauce. Spoon onto a large serving platter 
or individual plates, sprinkle with pecorino, and serve. —Alan T ardi
PER SERVING: 1,080 CALORIES  |  42G PROTEIN  |  99G CARB  |  60G TOT AL FA T  |  16G SA T FA T  |  
35G MONO FA T  |  6G POL Y FA T  |  260MG CHOL  |  1,3 90MG SODIUM  |  11G FIBER
96  P A S TAcontinued on p. 98 ➤