Black Bean Soup  
with Sweet Potatoes  
(recipe on page 5)
Pork Scaloppine with Prosciutto , 
Sage & Caramelized Lemon  
(recipe on p. 168)main courses
chicken with marsala, mushrooms & 
gorgonzola  p. 154
quick veal cacciatore  p. 155
chicken breasts stuffed with prosciutto, 
parmesan & sun-dried tomatoes  p. 156
quick chicken parmesan  p. 157
chicken piccata with fried capers  p. 158
chicken saltimbocca  p. 159
braised italian chicken with green beans, 
tomatoes & olives  p. 160
chicken milanese  p. 161
tuscan grilled chicken, sausage &  
sage skewers  p. 162
pollo agrodolce  p. 163
roasted turkey breast, porchetta style  
p. 164breaded veal scaloppine with  
tricolor salad  p. 166
pork braciole with ragù  p. 167
pork scaloppine with prosciutto, sage & 
caramelized lemon  p. 168
slow-cooker osso buco  p. 169
tuscan-style roast pork with rosemary, 
sage & garlic  p. 170
bollito misto  p. 172
tagliata con rucola (sliced steak  
with arugula)  p. 173
pan-seared steak pizzaiola  p. 174
spicy clams and sausage  
in marinara  p. 175
eggplant parmigiana  p. 176
braised red snapper puttanesca  p. 179chicken with marsala,  
mushrooms & gorgonzola
SE R V E S  2 O R  3 
 1  lb. boneless, skinless chicken 
breast halves (about 3)
   Kosher salt and freshly ground 
black pepper
 3  Tbs. extra-virgin olive oil
 6  oz. cremini or white 
mushrooms, sliced 1 / 8 inch 
thick (about 21/4 cups)
 2  large cloves garlic, minced
 1/2  cup dry Marsala 
 1 / 3  cup heavy cream
 11/2   oz. crumbled Gorgonzola  
(1 / 3 cup)
 1   Tbs. chopped fresh flat-leaf 
parsleyServ e this version of an Italian classic over mini penne or whatever hollow 
pasta you prefer. 
1. Trim the chicken, removing the tenders, slice on an angle into 3/4-inch-thick 
pieces, and then season generously with salt and pepper. In a 10-inch straight-
sided sauté pan, heat 2 Tbs. of the oil over medium -high heat until it shimmers. 
Add half of the chicken and cook, flipping once, until lightly browned and just 
barely cooked through, 1 to 2 minutes per side. Transfer the chicken to a plate; 
repeat with the remaining chicken. Cover with foil to keep warm.
2. Return the pan to medium-high heat and add the remaining 1 Tbs. oil. Add 
the mushrooms, season lightly with salt, and sauté, stirring with a wooden 
spoon, until softened and well browned, 3 to 4 minutes. Reduce the heat to 
medium, add the garlic, and cook, stirring constantly, until fragrant, 20 to  
30 seconds. Pour in the Marsala and scrape the pan with the spoon to loosen 
any browned bits; simmer until the Marsala is reduc ed slightly, about 2 minutes. 
Stir in the cream and simmer until thickened slightly, 2 to 3 minutes. Add 
two-thirds of the Gorgonzola and stir until melted, 1 to 2 minutes. T aste the 
sauce; add salt and pepper as needed. Add the chicken along with any 
accumulated juices and turn to coat with the sauce. Serve immediately, 
sprinkled with the remaining cheese and the parsley. —Jennifer Armentrout
PER SERVING: 510 CALORIES  |  36G PROTEIN  |  9G CAR B  |  31G TOT AL FA T  |  12G SA T FA T  | 
15G MONO FA T  |  3G POL Y FA T  |  130MG CHOL  |  760 MG SODIUM  |  1G FIBER
154  M A I N  C O U R S E Squick veal cacciatore
SE R V E S  4
 1 / 3  cup unbleached all-purpose 
flour
 4   4-oz. veal cutlets, pounded  
1/4 inch thick
   Kosher salt and freshly ground 
black pepper 
 2  Tbs. extra-virgin olive oil
 1  Tbs. unsalted butter
 1  small yellow onion, chopped 
 2  medium cloves garlic, minced 
 8  oz. sliced cremini mushrooms 
(31/2 cups)
 1  cup canned diced tomatoes, 
with juice
 1/2   cup dry white wine
 11/2   tsp. chopped fresh rosemaryIf you like, substitute chicken 
cutlets for the veal. 
1. Put the flour in a wide shallow 
bowl. Season the cutlets all over 
with 1 tsp. salt and 1 tsp. pepper. 
Dredge in the flour and shake off 
any excess.
2. Heat the oil in a 12-inch skillet 
over medium-high heat until 
shimmering hot. Working in 
batches if necessary, cook the 
cutlets until dark golden brown, 1 to 2 minutes per side. Transfer to a large 
plate as they finish.
3. In the same skillet over medium heat, melt the butter. Add the onion and 
garlic and cook, stirring often, until softened, about 3 minutes.
4. Add the mushrooms and cook, stirring occasionally, until they release their 
liquid and it reduces to a glaze, about 5 minutes. Stir in the tomatoes, wine, 
and rosemary. Bring back to a simmer, scraping up any browned bits from the 
bottom of the skillet. Reduce the heat to medium low and simmer until the 
sauce is thickened, about 7 minutes. Season to taste with salt and pepper.
5. Add the cutlets and any accumulated juices to the sauce and cook until 
heated through, 1 to 2 minutes. Serve immediately. 
—Bruce Weinstein and Mark Scarbrough
PER SERVING: 270 CALORIES  |  26G PROTEIN  |  10G CA RB  |  12G TOT AL FA T  |  3.5G SA T FA T  |   
6G MONO FA T  |  1.5G POL Y FA T  |  75MG CHOL  |  480 MG SODIUM  |  1G FIBER
M A I N  C O U R S E S   155chicken breasts stuffed with prosciutto,  
parmesan & sun-dried tomatoes
SE R V E S  2
 3  Tbs. freshly grated Parmesan, 
preferably Parmigiano- 
Reggiano
 2  Tbs. finely chopped prosciutto 
(about  1 medium slice;  
domestic is fine)
 2  Tbs. finely chopped, well-
drained sun-dried tomatoes
 1  tsp. finely chopped fresh sage 
or 1/4 tsp. dried sage
 1  Tbs. plus 1 tsp. unsalted 
butter, softened 
   Salt and freshly ground 
black pepper
 2  boneless chicken breast 
halves, skin on 
 1  Tbs. oil“Packed in oil” sun-dried  tomatoes have a nice texture and flavor, but if  
you can’t find them, just use the plain dried kind and rehydrate them well 
before use.
1. Heat the oven to 450°F . In a small bowl, combine the Parmesan, prosciutto, 
sun-dried tomatoes, sage, and 1 Tbs. of the butter and mix until well blended. 
T aste and season with pepper and possibly more salt, though the prosciutto 
and cheese contribute salt. The mixture should be highly seasoned.
2. Gently slide your index finger under the chicken skin to create a small 
pocket. Scoop up some of the filling and push it into the pocket, spreading it 
as evenly as possible. Do this in a few places until you’ve used half the filling 
and covered the top of the breast, but be careful not to completely detach 
the skin from the meat. Tidy up the skin by stretching it over the filling and 
the breast as evenly as possible. Repeat with the second breast. Chill in the 
freezer for about 5 minutes to let the filling firm up.
3. Remove the chicken from the freezer, and season both sides with salt and 
pepper. Heat a cast-iron or other heavy-based ovenproof skillet on the stove 
over medium-high heat. When the pan is hot, add the oil and the remaining  
1 tsp. butter. When the butter stops foaming, add the chicken breasts, skin 
side down. Don’t try to move them for at least 1 minute or the skin might tear. 
After 1 minute or so, you can move them around to be sure they’re not stick-
ing. Cook until the skin side is well browned, about 4 minutes.
4. Carefully slide a thin spatula under the chicken and flip it over, taking care 
not to rip the skin. Put the pan in the hot oven and continue cooking until the 
chicken is no longer pink inside, about 10 minutes or until a thermometer 
reads 165°F at the thickest part. T ake the breasts from the oven, let them rest 
for 3 to 5 minutes tented with foil, and then serve immediately. 
—Martha Holmberg
PER SERVING: 430 CALORIES  |  40G PROTEIN  |  2G CAR B  |  28G TOT AL FA T  |  11G SA T FA T  | 
9G MONO FA T  |  6G POL Y FA T  |  125MG CHOL  |  1,08 0MG SODIUM  |  0G FIBER
156  M A I N  C O U R S E Show to stuff chicken breasts
Create a space, not a flap. Try to 
keep the edges of the skin 
attached to the meat.Smooth the stuffing from the 
outside. Gentle prodding will help 
distribute the layer.
No flipping until you see the 
golden crust. Let the chicken 
sauté undisturbed to avoid tear-
ing the skin.T ake your time when turning. 
T o preserve the skin and stuffing, 
go easy when flipping.