slow-cooker osso buco
There are two tricks to this recipe: browning the veal shanks before they go 
into the slow cooker and reducing the sauce before serving. The result is an 
osso buco you’d be hard-pressed to distinguish from the labor-intensive 
classic (trust us). 
1. Put the flour in a wide, shallow dish. Season the veal shanks all over with salt 
and pepper and dredge in the flour; shake off the excess flour. 
2. Heat a 12-inch skillet over medium heat. Add the butter, and when it foams, 
add the shanks to the skillet. Cook until golden, turning once, about 10 min-
utes. Transfer the shanks to a slow cooker.
3. Add the wine to the skillet. Scrape up any browned bits from the bottom of 
the skillet and pour the contents of the skillet into the slow cooker. Add the 
tomatoes and their juice, chicken broth, onion, carrot, celery, and thyme. 
Cover and cook on low heat for 6 to 8 hours—the meat will be very tender and 
almost falling off the bone.
4. Transfer the shanks to a platter and cover with foil to keep warm. Pour the 
sauce from the slow cooker into a large skillet. Simmer over medium heat  
until reduced to about 2 cups, 10 to 15 minutes. Season to taste with salt  
and pepper.
5. Meanwhile, in a small bowl, combine the parsley, lemon zest, and garlic 
to make a gremolata. Serve the veal shanks topped with the sauce and the 
gremolata. —Allison Fishman
PER SERVING: 460 CALORIES  |  46G PROTEIN  |  15G CA RB  |  19G TOT AL FA T  |  9G SA T FA T  |   
7G MONO FA T  |  1G POL Y FA T  |  205MG CHOL  |  710MG  SODIUM  |  1G FIBERS E R V E S  4
 1/2   cup unbleached all-purpose 
flour
 4  11/2- to 2-inch-thick veal 
shanks (about 21/2 lb.)
   Kosher salt and freshly ground 
black pepper
 2  Tbs. unsalted butter
 1  cup dry white wine
 1  14 1/2-oz. can diced tomatoes
 3/4   cup lower-salt chicken broth
 1  small red onion, chopped  
(11/2 cups)
 1  medium carrot, peeled and cut 
into 1/4-inch-thick rounds  
(1/2 cup)
 1  rib celery, chopped (1/2 cup)
 5  sprigs fresh thyme
 3  Tbs. finely chopped fresh flat-
leaf parsley
 1  Tbs. finely grated lemon zest 
 1  large clove garlic, minced  
(1 tsp.)170  M A I N  C O U R S E S
M A I N  C O U R S E S   171tuscan-style roast pork with rosemary,  
sage & garlic
SE R V E S  6 T O  8
FOR  THE  BRINED  PORK
 3  o z. kosher salt (3/4 cup if using 
Diamond Crystal ®; 6 Tbs. if 
using Morton ®)
 1/4   cup packed light brown sugar
 3  medium cloves garlic, 
smashed and peeled
 3  large sprigs fresh rosemary
 3  large sprigs fresh sage
 1  3-lb. all-natural boneless pork 
loin, trimmed of excess fat
FOR THE HER B PAS TE
 8  medium cloves garlic, peeled
 1/4   cup fresh rosemary leaves
 1/4   cup fresh sage leaves 
   Kosher salt and freshly ground 
black pepper
 3   Tbs. extra-virgin olive oilThis juicy roast gets a flavorful, burnished crust from its time on a rotisserie 
grill. If you don’t have a rotisserie, you can grill the pork over indirect heat for 
equally delicious results. Steer clear of pork loins labeled “extra tender” or 
“guaranteed tender,” because they’ve been treated with sodium phosphate 
and water and will be too salty if brined.
BRINE THE  PORK
In a 3- to 4-quart saucepan, combine the salt, sugar, garlic, and herb sprigs 
with 2 cups of water. Stir over high heat just until the salt and sugar dissolve. 
Add 6 more cups of water and cool to room temperature. Transfer to a large 
container, add the pork, cover, and refrigerate for 8 to 18 hours.
MAKE  THE  HER B PAS TE
Put the garlic, rosemary, sage, 1 Tbs. salt, and 1 tsp. pepper in a large mortar 
and pound to a coarse paste with the pestle. Add the oil and use the pestle to 
work it into the garlic paste. If you don’t have a mortar and pestle, combine all 
the ingredients in a mini food processor and pulse into a coarse paste.
BU TTERF LY AN D SEA SON  THE  PORK
Remove the pork from the brine and pat it dry (discard the brine). Butterfly 
the pork loin by making a horizontal slit down the length of the loin, cutting 
almost through to the other side. Open the meat like a book. Spread half of the 
herb paste over the inner surface of the roast; then fold it back to its original 
shape. Tie the roast at 1-inch intervals with kitchen twine and then spread the 
remaining herb paste over the entire outer surface. 
GRI LL THE  PORK
1. Set up a grill for indirect rotisserie cooking according to the manufacturer’s 
instructions. Heat the grill to 350°F . When ready to cook, skewer the roast 
lengthwise on the rotisserie spit and let it rotate on the grill, covered, until 
an instant-read thermometer inserted near the center of the roast registers 
145°F , 35 to 45 minutes. If you don’t have a rotisserie, set up your grill for  
indirect grilling. Heat the grill to 350°F . Put the roast in the cool zone on the 
grill, and cook as directed above, turning the roast about every 10 minutes.
2. Remove the roast from the spit if necessary and transfer it to a cutting 
board. Let stand for 5 minutes, remove the twine, and slice thinly. Serve hot, 
warm, or at room temperature. —Paul Speck
PER SERVING: 290 CALORIES  |  32G PROTEIN  |  2G CAR B  |  16G TOT AL FA T  |  4.5G SA T FA T  |   
9G MONO FA T  |  1G POL Y FA T  |  85MG CHOL  |  1,010 MG SODIUM  |  0G FIBER172  M A I N  C O U R S E Sbollito misto
SE R V E S  1 0  T O  1 2
FOR  THE  BROTH
 3  lar ge onions, quartered
 4  leeks, rinsed and split
 4  large carrots, chopped coarse
 6  large cloves garlic 
 2  large tomatoes, chopped 
coarse
 4  bay leaves
 4  large sprigs fresh thyme
 1  small bunch fresh flat-leaf 
parsley
 4  Tbs. salt
 2  Tbs. whole black peppercorns
FOR THE MEATS
 1  capon or large roasting 
chicken
 2  lb. lean short ribs of beef
 4  lb. bottom round of beef
 1  lb. oxtail
 2  lb. breast of veal, rolled and 
tied
 1  veal tongue 
 1  pig’s foot, parboiled for  
15 minutes 
 1  calf’s head 
 1  cotechino sausage
FOR THE VEGETA BLE  
ACCOMPANIMENT
 10  to 12 medium yellow or Vidalia 
onions, peeled and halved
  Olive oil, for drizzling
   Salt and freshly ground black 
pepper
 11/2   lb. new or boiling potatoes, 
peeled
 11/2  lb. carrots, peeled and cut into 
chunks
 11/2   lb. leeks, split, rinsed, and cut 
into 3-in. chunks
   Chicken stock, for simmering 
(optional)Translated as “mixed boil,” 
bollito mista is a delicious 
mixture of meats and poultry 
cooked in a broth flavored with 
herbs and vegetables. You’ll 
want about 8 lb. of meat (includ-
ing the bones), plus a sausage 
and a capon or chicken. 
1. Divide the broth ingredients 
between a pot for the capon and 
a large pot for the other meats 
(you can also cook the meats 
in individual pots). Add water to fill the pots about halfway and bring to a boil. 
Reduce the heat slightly and simmer for 20 minutes. T aste the liquid to make 
sure the amount of salt is right. Increase the heat and bring the broth to a full 
boil. Add the capon and the meats to the pots and top off with more water if 
necessary to cover. As soon as the broth returns to a boil, adjust the heat so 
the liquid simmers steadily but doesn’t actually boil. During cooking, skim off 
any scum from the top of the broth.
2. After about an hour, begin testing the meats. Here are some approximate 
cooking times: cotechino—1 hour; capon, veal breast, tongue, pig’s foot— 
11/2 hours; short ribs, oxtail, bottom round, calf’s head—3 to 4 hours.
3. When a cut of meat is very tender when pierced with a knife or skewer, 
remove it and reserve at room temperature or in the refrigerator. When all the 
meats are cooked, strain both the meat broth and the capon broth and skim 
off as much fat as possible. T aste them; if not full-flavored enough, simmer to 
reduce the volume and concentrate the flavors a little.
4. About an hour before serving time, heat the oven to 375°F . Arrange the 
onion in a roasting or baking dish, drizzle with olive oil and sprinkle with salt 
and pepper. Roast until slightly collapsed and caramelized, about 45 minutes. 
Keep warm until time to serve. 
5. Meanwhile, simmer the potatoes, carrot, and leeks in chicken stock or water, 
seasoned with salt and pepper, until just tender. Remove from the stock when 
done, but save the stock. Just before serving, reheat the vegetables by sim-
mering them in a little of the reserved stock.
6. T o serve the bollito misto, cut each type of meat into thin slices or small 
pieces, removing any bones. The pig’s foot is difficult to slice, so just cut it into 
sections. The tongue must be peeled, using a sharp knife and your fingers, 
before slicing. Slice the breast meat of the capon and cut the wings, thighs, 
and drumsticks into portions. Arrange all the meats, sausage, and capon on a 
large deep, warm platter, and pour over some hot broth. Serve the vegetables 
in bowls on the side, along with the  roasted onion. If you like, serve the capon 
broth in little cups after finishing the bollito misto . —Roberto Donna
