PASTA  115ragù alla bolognese
M A K e S  A B O U T  41/2  C U P S  S A U C e ; 
S e r v e S  6  T O  8
 2  Tbs. unsalted butter
 2  Tbs. extra-virgin olive oil
 1  small yellow onion, finely diced
 1/2   medium carrot, peeled and 
finely diced
 1  medium rib celery, finely diced
 1  lb. ground pork (preferably 
from the shoulder)
 1/4   lb. thickly sliced Prosciutto di 
Parma, very finely diced
   Kosher salt and freshly ground 
black pepper
 1/2  cup dry white wine
 1  28-oz. can Italian plum toma-
toes with their juice, passed 
through a food mill to remove 
their seeds
 1  cup homemade or lower-salt 
chicken broth or beef broth
 1/2  cup hot milk
 11/4   to 11/2 lb. pappardelle, cookedGently toss fresh or dried pasta 
with this ragù the Italian way, 
ladling it in gradually so it evenly 
coats the noodles but doesn’t 
overwhelm or saturate them.
1. Heat the butter and oil in a 
small Dutch oven or a wide, 
heavy-based saucepan over 
medium heat. When the butter 
begins to foam, add the onion, 
carrot, and celery and cook, 
stirring occasionally, until they’re 
lightly golden and soft, 5 to 7 minutes. Raise the heat to high, add the pork and 
prosciutto, and season lightly with salt and pepper. Cook, stirring and breaking 
up the pork with a large spoon until the meat loses its raw color, 3 to 5 minutes 
(the meat won’t brown). Add the wine and cook, stirring, until it’s almost com-
pletely reduced, 3 to 5 minutes. Add the tomatoes and the broth. As soon as 
the liquid comes to a boil, reduce the heat to low and cook the sauce at a bare 
simmer for 2 hours. 
2. Add the hot milk and simmer for another 30 minutes, stirring occasionally. 
At this point, the sauce should have a thick but saucy consistency and a light 
reddish brown color. If the sauce has thickened before the cooking time is up, 
cover the pot. If the sauce is still too thin at the end of cooking, continue to 
simmer gently, uncovered, until it’s thick. T aste and adjust the seasonings and 
toss with the pappardelle. —Biba Caggiano
PER SERVING, WITHOUT PAST A: 280 CALORIES  |  15G PROT EIN  |  7G CARB  |  21G TOT AL FA T  |  
8G SA T FA T  |  10G MONO FA T  |  2G POL Y FA T  |  65M G CHOL  |  620MG SODIUM  |  1G FIBER
116  PASTAgnocchi with sausage and leek ragù
M A K e S  A B O U T  3  C U P S  r A G ù ; 
S e r v e S  6 
FOr THe SAUCe
 1   28-oz. can whole peeled  
tomatoes (preferably San 
Marzano)
 1/2   lb. sweet Italian sausage 
(about 2 links)
 3  Tbs. extra-virgin olive oil
 1  large leek (white and light 
green parts only), trimmed, 
halved lengthwise, rinsed well, 
and cut crosswise into thin 
half-moon slices (about  
11/2 cups)
 2  tsp. chopped fresh flat-leaf 
parsley
 1  tsp. chopped fresh thyme
 1  tsp. chopped fresh marjoram
 1  tsp. minced garlic (about  
1 medium clove)
 1/2   tsp. kosher salt; more to taste
  Freshly ground black pepper
FOr THe GNOCCHI
  Kosher salt
 1  recipe Potato Gnocchi 
(recipe p. 63)
 1  cup freshly grated Parmigiano- 
reggiano (optional)You can make this sauce ahead and refrigerate it, covered, for up to 5 days or 
freeze it for up to 1 month.
1. Put the tomatoes and their juices in a food processor and pulse 4 or 5 times 
until the tomatoes are crushed but not completely puréed. 
2. Remove the sausage from its casing and tear the sausage apart with your 
hands into coarse pieces. Heat 1 Tbs. of the olive oil in a 12-inch skillet over 
medium-high heat. Add the sausage and cook, further breaking it apart with a 
wooden spoon, until lightly browned and almost completely cooked through, 
3 to 5 minutes. With a slotted spoon, transfer the sausage to a plate. 
3. Add the remaining 2 Tbs. olive oil to the pan and then add the leek, parsley,
thyme, marjoram, garlic, and salt. Cook, stirring, until the leek is soft and fra-
grant, about 3 minutes. Adjust the heat if the garlic or leek shows any sign  
of burning. 
4. Add the tomatoes and reserved sausage and stir well to combine, scraping 
up any browned bits on the bottom of the pan. Bring to a vigorous simmer and 
then reduce the heat to medium low. Cover the pan with the lid slightly ajar 
and simmer gently for 45 minutes. If the sauce is bubbling too fast, reduce the 
heat to low. Remove the lid and if the sauce seems watery, continue to sim-
mer, stirring occasionally, until reduced to a thick sauce consistency. Adjust 
the seasoning to taste with salt and pepper.
5. Cook the gnocchi and toss with the sauce: Bring a large pot of well-salted 
water to a boil over high heat. T o get the gnocchi into the boiling water, fold  
the parchment ends to form a chute and gently shake the gnocchi out, taking 
care not to clump them together as you drop them in. Give one gentle stir, wait 
until the gnocchi all float to the surface of the water, and then cook them for  
1 minute. Carefully drain the gnocchi in a colander. Transfer them to the sauce 
and gently toss to coat. Serve immediately, topped with Parmigiano, if using. 
—Laura Giannatempo
PER SERVING: 440 CALORIES  |  14G PROTEIN  |  63G CA RB  |  14G TOT AL FA T  |  4G SA T FA T  |   
8G MONO FA T  |  1.5G POL Y FA T  |  50MG CHOL  |  1,1 40MG SODIUM  |  6G FIBERPASTA  117
Gnocchi’s plump, pillowy texture and mild, delicate flavor make them perfect for rich, hearty sauces. In general, 
meat sauces are a fantastic match, but butter- and cream-based sauces work well, too.
In Italy, gnocchi are usually served after appetizers ( antipasti ) as a first course (or primo piatto ), instead of 
pasta. And they’re followed by a meat and vegetable course ( secondo piatto  and contorno ). When Italians eat 
gnocchi this way, the portions tend to be on the small side. However, gnocchi can just as easily be served as a 
main course, preceded or followed by a light green salad. 
Make ahead and freeze
You can serve freshly made gnocchi right away or within a couple of hours, or you can freeze them for later use. 
Put the gnocchi in the freezer while they’re still on the baking sheets and freeze until they are hard to the touch, 
at least 1 hour. Transfer them to a large zip-top bag or several smaller bags and freeze for up to 2 months. 
Cook frozen gnocchi in boiling water in two batches. Frozen gnocchi cause the temperature of the cooking 
water to drop, so they’ll fall apart before the water returns to a boil if there are too many in the pot.
Don’t refrigerate fresh gnocchi for more than 2 or 3 hours, as they tend to ooze water and become soggy. All about Gnocchi