S TA R T E R S ,  S A L A D S  &  S O U P S   25
basic beans 
1  C U P  O F  D R I E D  B E A N S  M A K E S 
A B O U T  3  C U P S  C O O K E D
 2  bay leaves
 2  cloves garlic, smashed
 2  to 3 sprigs fresh herbs (such as 
rosemary, thyme, or flat-leaf 
parsley)
 1  to 11/2 cups dried beans, sorted 
through and rinsed
  Kosher saltUse this basic bean cooking method to turn out any type of dried bean.
Wrap the bay leaves, garlic, and herbs in cheesecloth and tie with twine. Put 
the beans in a large pot and cover with water by 2 inches (about 2 quarts). Add 
the herb bundle and 1 tsp. salt. Bring to a boil over high heat. Lower the heat to 
maintain a very gentle simmer, cover, and cook until the beans are tender (try 
biting into one) but not splitting and falling apart, 1 to 2 hours depending on 
the type of bean (check occasionally to be sure the beans aren’t boiling and 
are covered with liquid; add water if needed). Discard the herb bundle. Add 
the beans and their cooking liquid immediately to the soup recipe, or let the 
beans cool in the liquid and refrigerate for up to 3 days.26  S TA R T E R S ,  S A L A D S  &  S O U P Spasta e fagioli 
M A K E S  1 6  C U P S ;  S E R V E S  8
 8  slices bacon, cut crosswise 
into 1/4-inch-wide strips
 3  medium red onions, finely 
chopped
 3  medium cloves garlic, minced
 1/2  tsp. dried rosemary 
 2  quarts homemade or lower-
salt chicken broth 
 2  151/2-oz. cans chickpeas, rinsed 
and drained 
 1  141/2-oz. can petite-cut diced 
tomatoes
 4  medium carrots, peeled, 
halved lengthwise, and thinly 
sliced
 3  medium celery ribs with 
leaves, thinly sliced crosswise 
 1  slender 3-inch cinnamon stick
   Kosher salt and freshly ground 
black pepper
 1  cup tubettini (or other small 
pasta)
 1 1/2  tsp. red-wine vinegar; more to 
taste
   Grated or shaved Parmigiano-
Reggiano, for garnishThis Italian soup—which has as many variations as there are cooks—is chock-
full of pasta, beans, and vegetables.
1. In a 6-quart (or larger) Dutch oven over medium heat, cook the bacon, stir-
ring occasionally, until partially crisp, about 7 minutes. With a slotted spoon, 
transfer the bacon to a paper-towel-lined plate. Add the onions to the pot and 
cook, scraping up any browned bits and stirring occasionally, until softened,  
6 to 8 minutes. Add the garlic and rosemary and cook, stirring constantly, until 
fragrant, about 1 minute. Add the chicken broth, chickpeas, tomatoes and 
their juices, carrots, celery, cinnamon stick, 3/4 tsp. salt, 1/2 tsp. pepper, and  
1 cup water. Bring to a boil over high heat; skim any foam as necessary. Reduce 
the heat and simmer, stirring occasionally, until the carrots and celery are very 
tender, about 30 minutes.
2. Meanwhile, cook the tubettini according to the package directions 
and drain.
3. Discard the cinnamon stick and add the pasta to the soup. Stir in the 
bacon and vinegar. Season to taste with salt, pepper, and more vinegar. Serve 
garnished with the Parmigiano-Reggiano. —Lori Longbotham
PER SERVING: 370 CALORIES  |  21G PROTEIN  |  59G CARB  |  7G TOT AL FA T  |  1.5G SA T FA T  |  
2.5G MONO FA T  |  2G POL Y FA T  |  5MG CHOL  |  720MG SODIUM  |  11G FIBER
S TA R T E R S ,  S A L A D S  &  S O U P S   27ACINI DI PEPE : “PEPPERCORNS”try these  
pastas in soup
There’s a whole world of tiny  
pastas—more grown up than  
alphabets—that are best enjoyed  
in soup. Their Italian names are 
beguiling.
DITALINI: “LITTLE THIMBLES”
FARFALLINE: “LITTLE BUTTERFLIES” LUMACHINE: “LITTLE SNAILS” ORZO: “BARLEY SEEDS”
QUADRUCCI: “TINY SQUARES” STELLINE: “LITTLE STARS” TUBETTINI: “LITTLE TUBES”
CONCHIGLIETTE: “LITTLE SEA-
SHELLS”FUNGHETTI: “LITTLE MUSHROOMS” ANELLINI: “LITTLE RINGS”capellini and kale soup
S E R V E S  6  T O  8
 2  Tbs. extra-virgin olive oil
 3  medium carrots, peeled and 
chopped
 1  medium red onion, chopped
 1  cup broken (2- to 3-inch 
pieces) dried capellini pasta
 2  quarts homemade or lower-
salt chicken broth
 1  small bunch kale, ribs  
removed, and leaves roughly 
chopped (about 6 cups)
 1  15-oz. can cannellini beans, 
rinsed and drained
 3  Tbs. freshly squeezed lime 
juice; more to taste  
   Kosher salt and freshly ground 
black pepper
 1/4  cup coarsely chopped fresh 
cilantroCapellini pasta is slightly thicker than angel hair, which can be substituted.
1. Heat 1 Tbs. of the oil in a large pot over medium-high heat. Add the carrots 
and onion and cook, stirring occasionally, until the onion is soft and just golden 
brown, about 10 minutes. With a rubber spatula, scrape the vegetables into a 
medium bowl and set aside. If necessary, wipe the pot clean.
2. Heat the remaining 1 Tbs. oil in the pot over medium-high heat. Add the 
pasta and cook, stirring often, until dark golden brown, 3 to 4 minutes. Add the 
broth and stir, scraping the bottom of the pot to release any stuck-on pasta. 
Add the carrots and onions, kale, beans, lime juice, 1/2 tsp. salt, and 1/4 tsp. pep-
per and bring to a boil. Reduce the heat to medium low and simmer until the 
kale, carrots, and pasta are tender, 8 to 10 minutes.
3. Remove the pot from the heat, stir in the cilantro, and season to taste with 
lime juice, salt, and pepper before serving. —Liz Pearson
PER SERVING: 200 CALORIES  |  11G PROTEIN  |  29G CARB  |  6G TOT AL FA T  |  1G SA T FA T  |  
3G MONO FA T  |  1G POL Y FA T  |  0MG CHOL  |  230MG SODIUM  |  4G FIBERS TA R T E R S ,  S A L A D S  &  S O U P S   29minestra di pasta e piselli
M A K E S  4  G E N E R O U S  S E R V I N G S
  11/2-oz. slice of prosciutto (about  
  1/4 inch thick), roughly chopped
 1/4  cup lard (or 2 Tbs. butter and  
2 Tbs. olive oil)
 1  medium onion, roughly 
chopped
 1  large clove garlic, roughly 
chopped
 12  large fresh basil leaves 
 8  cups homemade chicken stock 
or lower-salt canned chicken 
broth
 1/2  cup stelline, orzo, acini di 
pepe, or other tiny soup pasta
 1/2 cup peas
 1/2  cup finely diced carrot
 1/2  cup finely diced fennel
   Salt and freshly ground 
black pepper
  Lemon wedges 
   Freshly ground Parmigiano-
ReggianoThe prosciutto and lard add lots 
of flavor to this soup. If you can’t 
get lard, use butter and olive  
oil instead. 
In a food processor, blend the 
prosciutto, lard, onion, garlic, 
and basil until all the pieces are 
minuscule, scraping down the 
sides occasionally. Alternatively, 
chop everything very finely with 
a knife. Put this mixture (called a 
battuto ) in a large saucepan and 
cook over medium heat until the onion is soft and everything looks mushy, 8 to 
10 minutes, stirring frequently. Add the chicken stock. Bring to a boil, reduce 
to a simmer, and add the pasta. Simmer for 5 minutes. Add the peas, carrot, 
and fennel, simmering until both the pasta and the vegetables are just tender, 
about another 5 minutes. Season with salt and pepper. Ladle into bowls, 
add a squeeze of lemon, sprinkle with Parmigiano-Reggiano, and serve 
immediately. —Cliff ord Wright
PER SERVING: 300 CALORIES  |  14G PROTEIN  |  22G CARB  |  17G TOT AL FA T  |  7G SA T FA T  |
7G MONO FA T  |  2G POL Y FA T  |  25MG CHOL  |  840MG SODIUM  |  3G FIBER
how to make pasta its best in soup
Cut ingredients to about the same size as 
the pasta for a pleasing spoonful of soup.
Time the addition of the pasta so it will be 
cooked to al dente just as the other ingredi-
ents have finished cooking.
Cook delicate filled pasta like tortellini 
separately and then add it to the 
finished soup.