artichoke risotto with lemon and parsley
S E R V E S  6  A S  A N  A P P E T I Z E R  
O R  S I D E  D I S H
 4   large artichoke bottoms, 
halved, in lemon water 
 1/4   cup extra-virgin olive oil
 11/2   cups thinly sliced leeks (white 
and pale green parts only), 
rinsed well and drained
 1  large clove garlic, minced
   Sea salt or kosher salt
 5  to 6 cups homemade chicken 
broth (or equal parts lower-
salt canned broth and water); 
more as needed
 11/2   cups arborio rice
 1  Tbs. minced fresh flat-leaf 
parsley
 1  tsp. finely grated lemon zest
   Freshly ground black pepperThe artichokes get a head start here since they’re braised until tender before the 
rice is added. By the time the rice is cooked, the artichokes have all but melted.  
1. Thinly slice each artichoke half. Return the slices to the lemon water. Heat 
2 Tbs. of the olive oil in a heavy, wide-based pot (like a Dutch oven) over 
medium-low heat. Add the leeks and garlic and cook, stirring occasionally, until 
the leeks are soft, about 10 minutes. Drain the artichokes and add them to 
the pot; season with salt and stir to coat. Cover and cook until the artichokes 
are tender, about 15 minutes, checking to be sure they’re not burning (a little 
browning is good). 
2. Meanwhile, put the broth in a medium saucepan and bring to a simmer. 
Adjust the heat to keep the broth at a bare simmer.
3. Add the rice to the artichokes and cook, stirring for 2 minutes. Add enough 
broth to cover the rice and simmer gently, stirring often and adding more 
broth, 1/2 to 3/4 cup at a time, when the previous addition has been absorbed. 
(You may not need to use all the broth, or you may need a little more.) After  
18 to 20 minutes, when the rice is just al dente, cover the pot and remove it 
from the heat. Let stand for 3 minutes, uncover, an d stir in the remaining 2 Tbs. 
olive oil, the parsley, lemon zest, and several grinds of pepper. T aste and adjust 
the seasonings, adding more broth to loosen the risotto if you like. Divide 
among warm bowls and serve immediately. —Janet Fletcher
PER SERVING: 340 CALORIES  |  9G PROTEIN  |  55G CAR B  |  10G TOT AL FA T  |  2G SA T FA T  |   
7G MONO FA T  |  1G POL Y FA T  |  0MG CHOL  |  430MG SODIUM  |  7G FIBER
194  P O L E N TA  &  R I S O T T OPO L E N TA  &  R I S O T T O   195preparing artichoke bottoms
1. Fill a large bowl with cold water and add the juice of 1 lemon. 
Pull back the outer leaves of each artichoke until they break at 
the base.
2. Remove the leaves until you reach the pale yellow-green, 
tender inner leaves. With a sharp knife, slice off all but 1 inch  
of the stem.
3. Cut across the leaves just above where they join the base. 
Discard these, but reserve the outer leaves for steaming another 
time, if you like.4. With a small knife, pare the stem and the base, removing any 
dark green parts. If you like, cut the stem and base in half.
5. With a melon baller or a spoon, scoop out and discard the hairy 
choke and prickly leaves inside. Immediately drop the trimmed 
artichoke into the lemon water to retard browning.risotto with peas, mint & lemon
S E R V E S  6  A S  A  S I D E  D I S H ,  
4  A S  A  M A I N  C O U R S E
 5  to 6 cups homemade or lower-
salt chicken broth
 4  Tbs. unsalted butter
 1  medium onion, cut into  
1/4-inch dice
  Kosher salt
 2  cups arborio rice (or other 
risotto rice)
 1/2   cup dry white wine (like Pinot 
Grigio)
 2  cups frozen peas
 1 / 3   cup chopped fresh mint
 2  Tbs. freshly squeezed lemon 
juice
 1  Tbs. finely grated lemon zest
 1/4   cup freshly grated  
Parmigiano-Reggiano;  
more for servingThe flavors of spring shine here. Frozen peas work fine.
1. Heat the broth in a saucepan over medium-high heat until very hot and then 
reduce the heat to keep the broth hot. In another wide, heavy saucepan, melt 
2 Tbs. of the butter over medium heat. Add the onion and a generous pinch 
of salt and sauté, stirring occasionally with a wooden spoon, until the onion 
softens and starts to turn lightly golden, 3 to 5 minutes. Add the rice and stir 
until the grains are well coated with butter and the edges become translucent, 
1 to 2 minutes. Pour in the wine and stir until it’s absorbed, about 1 minute. Add 
another generous pinch of salt and ladle enough of the hot broth into the pan 
to barely cover the rice, about 1 cup. Bring to a boil and then adjust the heat to 
maintain a lively simmer. Cook, stirring occasionally, until the broth has been 
mostly absorbed, 2 to 3 minutes. Continue adding broth in 1/2-cup increments, 
stirring and simmering, until it has been absorbed each time, at intervals of  
2 to 3 minutes.
2. After 16 to 18 minutes, the rice should be creamy but still fairly firm. At this 
point, add the peas and another 1/2 cup broth. Continue to simmer and stir 
until the peas are just cooked and the rice is just tender to the tooth, another  
3 to 4 minutes. Stir in another splash of broth if the risotto is too thick. Remove 
the pot from the heat and stir in the mint, lemon juice, lemon zest, the 
remaining 2 Tbs. butter, and the Parmigiano. Season with salt to taste. Serve 
the risotto immediately with a sprinkling of Parmigiano. —T asha DeSerio
PER SERVING: 270 CALORIES  |  9G PROTEIN  |  31G CAR B  |  10G TOT AL FA T  |  6G SA T FA T  |   
3G MONO FA T  |  1G POL Y FA T  |  25MG CHOL  |  520MG  SODIUM  |  3G FIBER
196  P O L E N TA  &  R I S O T T O