tortellini in broth with  
roasted vegetables
SE R V E S  2
 3  cups 3/4-inch-diced winter 
vegetables (carrots, parsnips, 
turnips, cauliflower, brocco-
flower, winter squash, sweet 
potatoes) 
 3  Tbs. extra-virgin olive oil
   Kosher salt and freshly ground 
black pepper
 6  oz. frozen, small cheese  
tortellini
 1  small shallot, sliced into rings 
   Pinch red pepper flakes
 11/2  cups homemade chicken stock 
or lower-salt chicken broth
 1/4  cup freshly and finely grated 
Parmigiano-Reggiano  
(about 1/2 oz.)
 2  tsp. coarsely chopped fresh 
flat-leaf parsley
 1/2  small lemon, cut into 2 wedgesThis is a great way to use up 
extra winter vegetables. Try a 
mix of carrots, parsnips, sweet 
potatoes, and cauliflower. 
There’s no need to peel most of 
these, as the skins are perfectly 
tender when roasted.
1. Heat the oven to 450°F . Put a 
large pot of water on to boil. In 
a 9x13-inch Pyrex ® baking dish, 
toss the 3 cups vegetables with 2 Tbs. of the oil and 1/4 tsp. salt and spread in 
one layer. Roast until the vegetables are well browned and shrunken, 28 to  
30 minutes, stirring occasionally with a flat metal spatula.
2. After the vegetables have roasted for about 15 minutes, add 2 tsp. salt 
and the tortellini to the boiling water; cook the pasta until tender. Save some 
of the water to pour into two large shallow soup bowls to warm them. Drain 
the tortellini in a colander. In a small saucepan, heat the remaining 1 Tbs. oil 
over medium heat. Add the shallot; sauté until softened and browned, about 
21/2 minutes. Stir in the pepper flakes and add the chicken broth. Bring to a 
simmer, cover, and simmer for 4 to 5 minutes. Turn off the heat and keep 
covered. Pour the water out of the soup bowls. Divide the tortellini between 
the warmed bowls. Spoon the roasted vegetables over the pasta. Pour the 
broth over the vegetables and garnish with the Parmigiano and parsley. 
Season with salt and pepper to taste. Serve with a lemon wedge.   
—Susie Middleton
PER SERVING: 670 CALORIES  |  25G PROTEIN  |  69G CA RB  |  34G TOT AL FA T  |  9G SA T FA T  |   
20G MONO FA T  |  3G POL Y FA T  |  50MG CHOL  |  2,96 0MG SODIUM  |  7G FIBER
90  P A S TAspring vegetable ragoût with fresh pasta
SE R V E S  4
  Kosher salt 
 3/4 lb. fresh pasta sheets
 1 small clove garlic, minced
  Freshly gr ound black pepper
 3  cups mixed spring vegetables 
(such as medium-thick  
asparagus, baby carrots, baby 
turnips, spring onions, and 
sugar snap peas), trimmed 
and cut into 1- to 3-inch-long 
by 1/2- to 3/4-inch-wide pieces
 1/2  cup shelled peas or peeled 
fava beans 
 1 / 3  cup loosely packed pea shoots 
or watercress sprigs; more for 
garnish
 1/4  cup loosely packed chopped 
mixed fresh herbs, such as 
basil, chervil, mint, parsley, 
and/or tarragon; more for 
garnish
 4  Tbs. cold unsalted butter, cut 
into 1/2-inch pieces
 11/2  tsp. freshly grated lemon zest
   Freshly grated Parmigiano-
Reggiano, for garnish  
(optional)T o peel fava beans, shuck them and cook in boiling salted water until tender, 
1 to 2 minutes, then rinse them with cold water and peel off the skin.
1. Bring a large pot of well-salted water to a boil. With a pizza cutter or chef’s 
knife, cut the pasta sheets into rustic strips about 1/2 inch wide.
2. In a 10- to 11-inch straight-sided sauté pan, bring 21/2 cups water, the garlic, 
1 tsp. salt, and 1/4 tsp. pepper to a simmer over high heat. Add the mixed veg-
etables and simmer briskly, adjusting the heat as necessary, until just crisp-
tender, 3 to 4 minutes. With a slotted spoon, transfer to a large plate. If using 
peas, simmer them until barely tender, about 2 minutes, and transfer to the 
plate with the slotted spoon. (If using favas, skip this step.) Raise the heat to 
high and boil the liquid until reduced to 1 cup, 3 to 4 minutes. 
3. Meanwhile, cook the pasta in the boiling water until barely al dente, 2 to 
4 minutes. Drain.  
4. Add the cooked pasta, vegetables, favas (if using), pea shoots or water-
cress, herbs, butter, and lemon zest to the broth. T oss over medium-high heat 
until the butter is melted, about 1 minute. 
5. Season to taste with salt and pepper. Serve garnished with pea shoots or 
watercress, fresh herbs, and Parmigiano (if using). —Allison Ehri Kreitler
PER SERVING: 390 CALORIES  |  12G PROTEIN  |  55G CA RB  |  14G TOT AL FA T  |  8G SA T FA T  |   
3G MONO FA T  |  1.5G POL Y FA T  |  95MG CHOL  |  460 MG SODIUM  |  6G FIBERbaked ziti with tomato,  
mozzarella & sausage
S e r v e S  4
  Olive oil
 1  large onion, cut into small dice
 3/4  lb. sweet Italian pork sausage, 
removed from its casing and 
crumbled
 2  cloves garlic, minced
   Kosher salt and freshly ground 
black pepper
 1/4 cup dry red wine
 1  35-oz. can whole plum  
tomatoes, chopped, with  
their juice
 1/4  cup chopped fresh marjoram 
or oregano (from about 6 large 
sprigs)
 1 cup fresh ricotta
 1  cup freshly grated mild  
pecorino romano
 1 / 3  cup chopped fresh flat-leaf 
parsley
   Pinch of nutmeg, preferably 
freshly grated 
 1 lb. dried ziti
 1/2  lb. mozzarella, preferably 
fresh, cut into small cubesTry to find freshly made ricotta and mozzarella to see how good this rustic 
dish can be. 
1. Heat the oven to 375°F . Lightly oil a large, shallow baking dish. Bring a large 
pot of salted water to a boil.
2. In a large skillet, heat about 2 Tbs. olive oil over medium heat. Add the onion 
and sauté until soft, about 5 minutes. Add the crumbled sausage and garlic 
and sauté until the sausage starts to brown. Season with salt and pepper. If the 
sausage gives off a lot of fat, pour off most of it, but leave a little to add flavor 
to the sauce. Add the red wine and let it boil until it’s almost gone. Add the  
tomatoes with all of their juice and cook, uncovered, at a lively simmer 
for about 10 minutes. The sauce will thicken slightly. Add the marjoram or 
oregano and taste for seasoning.
3. In a large bowl, mix the ricotta, about half of the pecorino, the parsley, and 
the nutmeg. Season with salt and pepper.
4. Meanwhile, cook the ziti in the boiling water until al dente. Drain well and 
toss it with the ricotta mixture until well coated. Add the sausage sauce and 
mix again. Add the mozzarella and toss gently. Pour everything into the baking 
dish and sprinkle the remaining pecorino on top. Bake uncovered until lightly 
browned and bubbling, about 20 minutes. Serve right away. —Erica DeMane
PER SERVING: 1,070 CALORIES  |  54G PROTEIN  |  113G  CARB  |  44G TOT AL FA T  |  20G SA T FA T  |  
17G MONO FA T  |  5G POL Y FA T  |  110MG CHOL  |  1,1 40MG SODIUM  |  8G FIBER
P A S TA   93