P A S TA   75
Instant, or no-boil, lasagna eliminates one of the more tedious steps of making a lasagna: boiling all those 
unwieldy sheets of pasta. The square dried pasta sheets fit easily into the baking pan. (At least one pasta 
maker, Delverde, includes a few disposable baking pans with its sheets.) The smaller strips of instant lasagna 
also work well; you’ll just need to overlap them slightly to fit in the pan. 
Fresh pasta is another option. Some supermarkets, Italian markets, and some restaurants sell sheets of 
fresh pasta. If the pasta is very thin, there’s no need to boil it first. If you make your own pasta, use the roller to 
make very thin strips, which is easier than trying to roll a square by hand. No-Boil Lasagna Really Works
Dried pasta sheets swell to 
fit the pan. Don’t worry if 
they look too small at first, 
but do trim fresh pasta 
close to the pan sides; it 
swells less. A teaspoon works well to 
spread the chunky sauce 
all the way to the edges. 
Be sure the sheet is well 
coated: Bare spots won’t 
become tender.
76  P A S TAcaramelized onions
M A K ES  ABO U T  1 1/2  C U P S
 2  Tbs. extra-virgin olive oil
 21/2  lb. Spanish onions or large 
yellow onions, peeled, 
trimmed, halved, and thinly 
sliced lengthwise, preferably 
using a radial cut (about  
9 cups)
 1 tsp. kosher saltThis recipe has been developed for a 12-inch skillet. If you use a 10-inch skillet, 
reduce the recipe proportionally by about one-quarter.
Heat the oil in a 12-inch skillet over medium-high heat until it immediately 
bubbles when an onion touches it, about 1 minute. Add the onion, sprinkle 
with the salt, and cook, stirring frequently, until it wilts completely and begins 
to stick to the bottom of the pan, 10 to 20 minutes (much of the moisture will 
evaporate and the pan will begin to brown; the cooking time varies with the 
moisture content). Reduce the heat to medium low and cook, stirring and 
scraping the pan with a wooden spoon every few minutes. (If the pan begins 
to look like it’s burning, add 2 Tbs. water, stir, and lower the heat a bit.) Cook, 
stirring and scraping and adding water as needed, until the onion is a uniform 
caramel brown, 30 to 45 minutes. (If they haven’t begun to brown much after 
20 minutes, raise the heat to medium.) Add a couple of tablespoons of water 
and scrape the pan well. Use right away or spread the onion on a baking sheet 
and let cool to room temperature. Store in the refrigerator for up to 1 week.gemelli with asparagus and 
caramelized onions
S E R V E S  4
 3   Tbs. extra-virgin olive oil
 1/4   lb. pancetta, cut into 1/4-inch 
dice
 1   lb. asparagus, trimmed, peeled 
if thick, and cut on the diagonal 
into 2-inch pieces
   Kosher salt and freshly ground 
black pepper 
 3/4   cup (about half a batch) Cara-
melized Onions (recipe below)
 3/4   cup homemade or low-salt 
chicken broth
 3/4   lb. dried gemelli or penne
 3/4   cup freshly grated Parmigiano- 
Reggiano
 1   tsp. sherry vinegar or balsamic 
vinegarMake caramelized onions ahead, 
then stir into weeknight meals for 
deep flavor fast.
1. Bring a large pot of well-salted 
water to a boil. Meanwhile, put  
2 Tbs. of the oil and the pancetta 
in a 12-inch skillet or sauté pan 
and cook over medium heat, 
stirring, until the pancetta begins 
to brown and renders much of 
its fat, 5 to 7 minutes. Using a slotted spoon, transfer the pancetta to a plate 
lined with paper towels. Raise the heat to medium high, add the asparagus, 
and season with 1/4 tsp. salt. Stir often until the a sparagus starts to brown, about 
3 minutes. Add the caramelized onions and chicken broth, reduce the heat to 
medium low, cover, and cook until the asparagus is tender, about 4 minutes. 
Stir in 1/4 tsp. pepper and set aside in a warm spot.
2. Cook the pasta in the boiling water, stirring often, until it’s just tender, about 
11 minutes. Reserve 1/4 cup of the pasta water. Drain the pasta and add it to the 
pan with the asparagus. Set the pan over medium-high heat and toss well. Add 
1/2 cup of the Parmigiano, the vinegar, and the cooked pancetta and continue 
cooking, stirring, for 1 minute to meld all the flavors. If the pasta begins to dry, 
add the reserved pasta water. Serve with a drizzle of the remaining 1 Tbs. olive 
oil and a sprinkling of the remaining Parmigiano.  —T ony Rosenfeld
PER SERVING: 720 CALORIES  |  29G PROTEIN  |  83G CA RB  |  32G TOT AL FA T  |  9G SA T FA T  |   
18G MONO FA T  |  4G POL Y FA T  |  35MG CHOL  |  1,710 MG SODIUM  |  7G FIBER
penne with tomatoes,  
artichokes & black olives 
SE R V E S  4
  K osher salt 
 2  Tbs. extra-virgin olive oil
 3  cloves garlic, minced 
 1  133/4- or 14-oz. can artichoke 
bottoms (or hearts), drained, 
rinsed, and thinly sliced
 1/4  tsp. crushed red pepper flakes 
 2  151/2-oz. cans diced tomatoes 
 1/2  cup pitted Kalamata olives, 
halved 
   Freshly ground black pepper 
 3/4 lb. dried penne rigate
 1 / 3  cup freshly grated  
Parmigiano-Reggiano
 3  oz. very thinly sliced 
prosciutto (preferably 
imported), cut into thin strips 
(about 3/4 cup)Lay strips of prosciutto atop this pasta just before serving. It’s a trick that 
cooks use with prosciutto on pizza to protect the delicate flavor and texture of 
the ham. The heat of the pasta just warms it up. 
1. Bring a large pot of well-salted water to a boil.
2. Heat the oil and garlic in a large (12-inch) skillet over medium-low heat, 
stirring occasionally, until the garlic becomes fragrant and starts to brown all 
over, about 4 minutes. Raise the heat to medium high, add the artichokes and 
red pepper flakes, and cook, stirring occasionally, until the artichokes start 
to brown, about 3 minutes. Add the tomatoes and their juices and bring to a 
boil. Reduce to a simmer, cover, and cook for 10 minutes. Stir in the olives and 
season generously with salt and pepper to taste. Cover and keep warm over 
low heat.
3. Meanwhile, cook the penne in the boiling salted water, stirring occasionally, 
until it’s just tender to the tooth (see the package for cooking time). Drain and 
return the pasta to its cooking pot. Add the sauce and about half the Parmi-
giano. Cook over medium-high heat for 1 to 2 minutes, tossing and stirring, to 
blend the flavors. Season with salt and pepper to taste. 
4. Serve immediately, scattering the prosciutto and remaining Parmigiano 
over each serving. —T ony Rosenfeld
PER SERVING: 560 CALORIES  |  23G PROTEIN  |  82G CA RB  |  16G TOT AL FA T  |  3G SA T FA T  |   
9G MONO FA T  |  2G POL Y FA T  |  20MG CHOL  |  1,940 MG SODIUM  |  3G FIBER
P A S TA   77