asparagus ravioli with brown butter sauce
M A K e S  1 8  r Av I O L I ;  
S e r v e S  4  A S  A  M A I N  D I S H  O r  
6  A S  A N  A P P e T I Z e r
  Sea salt 
 1  lb. thick asparagus, trimmed, 
spears cut into 1-inch pieces, 
and tips reserved
 6  Tbs. mascarpone 
 1 / 3   cup whole-milk ricotta 
 1/4   cup freshly grated Parmigiano- 
reggiano; more for serving 
 1  tsp. anchovy paste 
 1/2   tsp. minced garlic 
  Pinch of cayenne 
   Kosher salt and freshly ground 
black pepper
 36  wonton wrappers 
 4  oz. (1/2 cup) unsalted butter 
 1/2   cup blanched almonds, 
chopped
  Finely grated lemon zest 
106  PASTAWonton wrappers are a quick alternative to homemade pasta for ravioli. The 
rich brown butter, bright lemon zest, and crunchy almond garnish perfectly 
complement the creamy asparagus filling. 
1. Bring a medium pot of well-salted water to a boil over high heat. Have ready 
a medium bowl of ice water. Boil the asparagus tips until tender but still bright 
green, about 2 minutes. With a slotted spoon, transfer to the ice water. When 
cool, transfer with the slotted spoon to a small bowl and set aside. Cook and 
cool the asparagus spears in the same manner; dry them on paper towels. 
In a food processor (or by hand), chop 11/2 cups of the spears very finely and 
transfer to a medium bowl. Add the remaining spears to the tips. 
2. Add the mascarpone, ricotta, Parmigiano, anchovy paste, garlic, and 
cayenne to the chopped asparagus; mix well. Season to taste with salt and 
pepper. 
3. Arrange 18 wonton wrappers on a work surface. Put 1 level Tbs. of the 
asparagus filling in the center of each wrapper. Using a pastry brush, moisten 
the edges of each with water. T op each with another wrapper and press the 
edges firmly to seal, expelling any air bubbles as you seal. If you don’t plan to 
cook the ravioli immediately, cover them with a damp cloth. 
4. Bring a large pot of well-salted water to a rolling boil over high heat. Mean-
while, melt the butter in a 10-inch skillet over medium heat and add the 
almonds, shaking the pan. Cook until the butter turns light brown, about  
6 minutes, and then immediately transfer to a small bowl.
5. Add the ravioli to the boiling water. When they rise to the surface, after 
about 1 minute, use a slotted spoon to transfer them to warm plates or pasta 
bowls. Spoon the brown butter mixture over the ravioli. T op with the reserved 
asparagus pieces, a grinding of pepper, a sprinkle of Parmigiano, and a little 
lemon zest, and serve. —John Ash
PER SERVING: 510 CALORIES  |  13G PROTEIN  |  33G CA RB  |  38G TOT AL FA T  |  19G SA T FA T  |   
12G MONO FA T  |  3G POL Y FA T  |  90MG CHOL  |  620M G SODIUM  |  3G FIBER
What to buy
Choose spears that are firm, straight, and smooth, 
with tightly closed tips. Stalks should not be dry at 
the cut ends or limp. Open tips or ridges along the 
stem indicate old age; these stalks will be less 
flavorful and have a tough, woody texture. Thicker 
spears are usually more tender than skinny ones.
How to prep 
Trim away the tough, white woody base from the 
end of the asparagus spears. T o ensure you’ve trimmed enough, cut off a sliver of the end and 
eat it: It should be tender. You can also snap off 
the bottom of the spear with your hands (it should 
break naturally where the stem starts to toughen), 
though you’ll probably waste more tender 
asparagus than necessary. 
How to store
Stand trimmed spears upright in a jar with an inch 
or so of water. Cover with a plastic bag and store in 
the refrigerator for up to 3 days.Buying and Storing AsparagusPASTA  107
There are approximately 300 species of asparagus plants within the asparagus 
genus, but we eat just one: Asparagus officinalis . While the green variety is most 
common, purple and white asparagus can also be found in some farmers’ markets 
and specialty stores.
Green
Its sweet, grassy notes become more vegetal with age. Although it’s available in 
supermarkets much of the year, it’s best consumed from early to late spring, when 
it’s more likely to be harvested from a local source.
Purple
It’s sweeter, more tender, and produces fewer stalks per plant than its green 
cousin. Also known as Violetto d’Albenga, this variety originated in northwestern 
Italy (these days, it’s also grown in California). T o preserve its color, use it raw or 
cook it briefly; the longer it cooks, the more likely it’ll turn from purple to green.
White
Milder than other varieties, it has just a touch of pleasant bitterness. White aspara-
gus is buried in the soil and kept out of the sun to prevent it from developing chloro-
phyll, which would turn it green.Asparagus varieties108  PASTA
spaghetti with green garlic and olive oil
S e r v e S  2
  Kosher salt
 2  Tbs. extra-virgin olive oil
 2  oz. green garlic, green parts 
cut into 3-inch julienne 
strands, and white parts thinly 
sliced
 6  oz. thin spaghetti
 2  Tbs. freshly grated Parmigiano- 
reggiano; more for serving
  Freshly ground black pepperIn this riff on the classic spaghetti aglio e olio  (spaghetti with garlic and olive 
oil), green garlic replaces the traditional pungent cloves and lends a more 
delicate garlic flavor. 
1. Bring 3 quarts of well-salted water to a boil in a large pot over high heat.
2. Meanwhile, heat the oil in a 10-inch straight-sided sauté pan over low heat. 
Add the green garlic and 2 big pinches of salt; stir to coat. Cover and cook, 
stirring frequently, until wilted and softened, 5 to 7 minutes. Remove the pan 
from the heat.
3. Cook the spaghetti until just al dente, about 1 minute less than package 
timing. Set aside about 1/2 cup of the cooking water and drain the pasta.
4. Return the sauté pan to low heat. Add the spaghetti and ¼ cup of the 
cooking water; toss well. Add the Parmigiano and 2 Tbs. of the cooking water; 
toss again. Season to taste with salt and pepper, adding the remaining water if 
the pasta seems dry.
5. Serve in heated pasta bowls, sprinkled with additional Parmigiano.  
—Jennifer Armentrout
PER SERVING: 480 CALORIES  |  14G PROTEIN  |  73G CAR B  |  15G TOT AL FA T  |  2.5G SA T FA T  |  
10G MONO FA T  |  2G POL Y FA T  |  0MG CHOL  |  160MG  SODIUM  |  3G FIBER