short rib and porcini mushroom ragù
M A K e S  A B O U T  8  C U P S  r A G ù
 1  oz. dried porcini mushrooms 
(about 1 cup)
 2  28-oz. cans imported Italian 
plum tomatoes, preferably 
San Marzano
 1/2   cup extra-virgin olive oil
 2  lb. bone-in beef short ribs, 
trimmed of excess fat
 1  lb. boneless beef chuck, 
trimmed of excess fat
   Kosher salt and freshly ground 
black pepper 
 1  small yellow onion, finely 
chopped (about 1 cup)
 1  small carrot, finely chopped 
(about 1 cup)
 1  small celery stalk, finely 
chopped (about 1/2 cup)
 1  medium clove garlic, finely 
chopped
 2  oz. thickly sliced pancetta, 
finely chopped
 1  Tbs. chopped fresh flat-leaf 
parsley
 1  cup dry white wine
 1  lb. dried or fresh pasta, cooked 
and drainedShort, full-bodied dried pastas like rigatoni and orecchiette work great with 
ragùs. If you want to use fresh pasta, a wide shape like pappardelle can stand 
up to a hearty sauce. And a ragù is a good excuse to cook gnocchi, too.
1. Position a rack in the lower third of the oven and heat the oven to 300°F .
2. Soak the mushrooms in 2 cups of warm water for 20 to 30 minutes. With 
a slotted spoon, transfer the mushrooms to a cutting board and chop them 
finely. Line a strainer with a coffee filter or two layers of paper towels and 
strain the mushroom-soaking water into a bowl to get rid of any grit. Set aside 
both mushrooms and liquid.
3. Put one can of tomatoes and their juices in a food processor and process 
until puréed. Using a spatula or the back of a ladle, press the purée through a 
medium-mesh sieve set over a bowl to remove the seeds. Purée and strain 
the other can of tomatoes.
4. Heat ¼ cup of the oil in a 7- to 8-quart Dutch oven over medium-high heat. 
Season the ribs and beef chuck with salt and pepper and add them to the 
hot oil. Cook, turning as necessary, until the meat is golden brown on all sides, 
about 10 minutes. Transfer to a large plate, discard the fat, and clean the pan 
with paper towels.
5. Heat the remaining ¼ cup oil in the pan over medium heat. Add the onion, 
carrot, celery, garlic, and pancetta and cook, stirring frequently, until the veg-
etables are lightly golden and soft, 7 to 8 minutes. Add the mushrooms and 
parsley and stir for about 1 minute to blend the ingredients.
6. Return the meat to the pan and stir to coat with the savory base. Raise the 
heat to high and add the wine. Cook, stirring occasionally, until the wine is 
reduced approximately by half, about 5 minutes. Add the tomatoes and 1/2 cup 
of the reserved mushroom soaking water. Season with 1/2 tsp. salt and ¼ tsp. 
pepper. Stir until the liquid begins to simmer.
7. Turn off the heat, cover the pan tightly with a lid or heavy-duty aluminum foil, 
and put it in the oven. Cook, turning the meat every half hour, until the meat is 
fork tender and the ribs begin to fall off the bone, about 21/2 hours.
8. Remove the pan from the oven and transfer the meat (including any that 
has fallen off the bone) to a cutting board. Use a ladle to skim the fat off the 
surface of the sauce. When the meat is cool enough to handle, pull the meat 
off the ribs. Discard the bones and any fat and connective tissue. Finely chop 
all the meat. Stir the meat back into the sauce and simmer on the stovetop 
over medium heat, stirring occasionally, to allow the flavors to meld and the 
sauce to thicken slightly, about 10 minutes. Adjust the seasoning with salt and 
pepper to taste.
9. Pour the pasta into the rag ù, stir until well combined, and serve immediately. 
—Biba Caggiano
PER 1/2 CUP: 190 CALORIES  |  12G PROTEIN  |  5G CARB   |  11G TOT AL FA T  |  3G SA T FA T  | 
6G MONO FA T  |  1G POL Y FA T  |  35MG CHOL  |  320MG  SODIUM  |  1G FIBER
P A S TA   129neapolitan rib and  
sausage ragù
M A K e S  A B O U T  5  C U P S  r A G ù
 2  28-oz. cans imported Italian 
plum tomatoes, preferably 
San Marzano
 2  lb. baby back pork ribs, 
trimmed of excessive fat 
(about 11 ribs)
 1/2   cup extra-virgin olive oil
   Kosher salt and freshly ground 
black pepper
 1  medium yellow onion, finely 
chopped (about 11/4 cups)
 2  medium cloves garlic, finely 
chopped
 2  Tbs. chopped fresh flat-leaf 
parsley
 1/2   tsp. crushed red pepper 
flakes; more to taste
 2  links mild Italian sausage 
(about 1/2 lb.), casings 
removed, meat broken into 
small pieces
 1  cup dry white wine
 1/2   cup tomato paste diluted in  
1/2 cup water
 1  lb. dried or fresh pasta, cooked 
and drainedBaby back ribs and sausage 
make a satisfying sauce. Serve 
with a youthful, intensely fruity 
Zinfandel.
1. Position a rack in the lower 
third of the oven and heat the 
oven to 300°F .
2. Put one can of tomatoes and 
their juices in a food proces-
sor and process until puréed. Using a spatula or the back of a ladle, press the 
purée through a medium-mesh sieve set over a bowl to remove the seeds.  
Purée and strain the other can of tomatoes.
3. Cut the ribs into 2 or 3 pieces so they fit in a 7- to 8-quart Dutch oven. Heat 
¼ cup of the oil in the Dutch oven over medium-high heat. Season the ribs with 
kosher salt and pepper and add them to the hot oil, fatty side down. Cook until 
the ribs turn a light golden brown, propping them up as needed against the 
sides of the Dutch oven to brown them evenly, about 6 minutes. Turn the ribs 
over and brown them on the other side, about 2 minutes. Transfer the ribs to a 
large plate, discard the fat, and clean the pan with paper towels.
4. Heat the remaining ¼ cup oil in the pan over medium heat. Add the onion, 
garlic, parsley, and red pepper flakes and cook, stirring occasionally, until the 
onion just begins to color, about 5 minutes. Add the sausage and cook,  
stirring and breaking up the sausage with a wooden spoon until it’s lightly 
browned, 3 to 4 minutes.
5. Return the ribs to the pan and stir them around with the savory base. Raise 
the heat to high and add the wine. Cook, stirring occasionally, until the wine is 
reduced approximately by half, about 5 minutes. Add the tomatoes and the 
diluted tomato paste. Season with 1/2 tsp. salt and ¼ tsp. pepper. Stir until the 
liquid begins to simmer.
6. Turn off the heat, cover the pan tightly with a lid or heavy-duty aluminum 
foil, and put it in the oven. Simmer very gently, turning the ribs every half hour, 
until the sauce has a medium-thick consistency and the meat begins to fall off 
the bone, about 21/2 hours.
7. Remove the pan from the oven and transfer the ribs and any meat that 
has fallen off the bone to a cutting board. Use a ladle to skim the fat off the 
surface of the sauce. When the ribs are cool enough to handle, pull the meat 
off the ribs. Discard the bones and any fat and connective tissue. Finely chop 
the meat. Stir the meat back into the sauce and simmer on the stovetop over 
medium heat, stirring occasionally, to allow the flavors to meld and the sauce 
to thicken slightly, about 10 minutes. Adjust the seasoning with salt, pepper, 
and crushed red pepper to taste.
8. Pour the pasta into the rag ù, stir until well combined, and serve immediately. 
—Biba Caggiano
PER 1/2 CUP: 350 CALORIES  |  16G PROTEIN  |  9G CARB   |  26G TOT AL FA T  |  7G SA T FA T  |   
15G MONO FA T  |  2.5G POL Y FA T  |  50MG CHOL  |  53 0MG SODIUM  |  2G FIBER
130  P A S TA