rigatoni with red pepper and  
parmigiano cream sauce
SE R V E S  4
  K osher salt 
 2  Tbs. extra-virgin olive oil
 1  clove garlic, chopped 
 1  12-oz. jar roasted red pep-
pers, drained and thinly sliced 
(about 1 cup)
 2  tsp. chopped fresh thyme 
 1/4  tsp. crushed red pepper flakes 
 3/4  cup homemade chicken stock 
or lower-salt canned chicken 
broth
 1  Tbs. sherry vinegar 
 2  Tbs. heavy cream 
 1  cup freshly grated Parmigiano- 
Reggiano
  Freshly ground black pepper
 3/4  lb. dried rigatoni or penne 
rigateThe combination of roasted red peppers and cream gives this sauce a rich, 
satisfying feel. You could stir in some sautéed cauliflower or Italian sausage to 
add a little more substance.
1. Bring a large pot of well-salted water to a boil.
2. Heat the oil and garlic in a 10-inch straight-sided sauté pan over medium 
heat until the garlic sizzles steadily for about 1 minute and just starts to brown 
around the edges. Add the roasted red peppers, thyme, and red pepper flakes 
and cook, stirring, for a couple of minutes to heat through. Add the chicken 
broth and sherry vinegar. Raise the heat to medium high and bring to a boil. 
Remove from the heat, let cool for a couple of minutes, and then transfer to a 
blender or food processor and purée. 
3. Return the puréed pepper mixture to the sauté pan. Stir in the cream and 
3/4 cup of the Parmigiano and bring to a boil. Remove from the heat and season 
with salt and pepper to taste.
4. Meanwhile, cook the rigatoni in the boiling salted water, stirring occasionally, 
until it’s just tender to the tooth (see the package for cooking time). Drain and 
add the pasta to the sauté pan. Cook over medium heat for 1 to 2 minutes, 
tossing and stirring, to blend the flavors and slightly thicken the sauce. Season 
with salt and pepper to taste. 
5. Serve immediately, sprinkled with the remaining cheese and a few grinds of 
black pepper. —T ony Rosenfeld
PER SERVING: 540 CALORIES  |  18G PROTEIN  |  80G CA RB  |  13G TOT AL FA T  |  4.5G SA T FA T  |   
6G MONO FA T  |  1.5G POL Y FA T  |  15MG CHOL  |  1,1 90MG SODIUM  |  3G FIBER
P A S TA   81spaghetti with garlic,  
hot pepper & pecorino
SE R V E S  4
  K osher salt 
 3  Tbs. extra-virgin olive oil
 4  cloves garlic, cut in half and 
smashed
   Heaping 1/4 tsp. crushed red 
pepper flakes
 2  tsp. chopped fresh rosemary
 3/4 lb. dried spaghetti
 3/4  cup freshly grated pecorino 
romano 
  Freshly ground black pepperThis dish is a cross between two 
Italian classics. The garlic and 
red pepper flakes are the base 
for Spaghetti Aglio, Olio & 
Peperoncino, while the black 
pepper and pecorino pair up in 
Spaghetti Cacio e Pepe. Here, 
they form a rather tasty mix.
1. Bring a large pot of well-salted 
water to a boil. 
2. Heat the oil and garlic in a 10-inch straight-sided sauté pan over medium-
low heat, stirring, until the garlic becomes fragrant and starts to brown all over, 
4 to 5 minutes. Add the red pepper flakes and rosemary, cook for 30 seconds, 
and then remove from the heat. 
3. Cook the spaghetti in the boiling salted water, stirring occasionally, until it’s 
just tender to the tooth (see the package for cooking time). Reserve 1/2 cup of 
the pasta water and drain the pasta. 
4. Return the sauté pan to medium heat and fish out and discard the garlic. 
Add the drained pasta and 1/4 cup of the reserved pasta water. Cook for 1 to  
2 minutes, tossing and stirring, to blend the flavors. If the pasta isn’t tender, 
add the remainder of the cooking water and continue to cook and stir until 
done. T oss with half of the pecorino and 1/2 tsp. black pepper. Season with salt 
and more pepper to taste. 
5. Serve immediately, sprinkled with the remaining pecorino and a few grinds 
of black pepper  —T ony Rosenfeld
PER SERVING: 470 CALORIES  |  14G PROTEIN  |  64G CA RB  |  16G TOT AL FA T  |  4.5G SA T FA T  |   
8G MONO FA T  |  1.5G POL Y FA T  |  15MG CHOL  |  550 MG SODIUM  |  3G FIBER
82  P A S TAAll about Pecorino
There are dozens of varieties of pecorino, each with its own texture and flavor. In some of its best 
versions, pecorino is a rich, earthy, pleasantly sharp and peppery cheese with a firm yet creamy texture 
that’s perfect for nibbling. 
Pecorino (derived from pecora , Italian for “sheep”) is a sheep’s milk cheese that’s been produced 
all over central and southern Italy since well before the rise of the Roman Empire. Made with either 
pasteurized or unpasteurized milk, pecorino can be aged anywhere from 20 days—resulting in a soft-
textured, mild-flavored cheese with an edible rind—to up to a year for harder, more pungent cheeses. 
Its many varieties are grouped into four main government-protected regional categories (DOP) that 
are subject to strict production rules: T oscano, made in Tuscany; Sardo, from the island of Sardinia; 
Siciliano, produced in Sicily; and Romano, mainly from the countryside around Rome. The last, which 
is saltier than other pecorinos, is primarily a grating cheese when aged. The mass-produced pecorinos 
we’re used to seeing in grocery stores are also romanos.P A S TA   83shells with arugula,  
feta & sun-dried tomatoes
SE R V E S  8  T O  1 0  AS  A S I D E D I S H
  K osher salt 
 1/4  lb. arugula, washed (stem and 
rip the leaves into smaller 
pieces if they’re large)
 6  oz. feta, crumbled 
 1/2   cup pitted Kalamata olives  
(16 to 20), quartered
 2  heaping Tbs. drained, thinly 
sliced oil-packed sun-dried 
tomatoes (or 8 sun-dried 
tomatoes, rehydrated in hot 
water and thinly sliced)
 1  lb. dried small or medium 
shells or orecchiette
 1  Tbs. red-wine vinegar 
 3  Tbs. olive oil
   Freshly ground black pepper
 10  fresh basil leaves, cut in  
a chiffonade (see p. 65)If you can’t find high-quality arugula (smallish leaves with no brown spots or 
large holes), use baby spinach instead. 
1. Bring a large pot of well-salted water to a boil. Put the arugula, feta, olives, 
and sun-dried tomatoes in a large bowl. Reserve or refrigerate until needed.
2. Cook the pasta in the boiling water until it’s just tender, about 9 minutes (fol-
low the package instructions). Meanwhile, add the v inegar and oil to the arugula 
salad, season liberally with salt and pepper, and toss well. Drain the pasta, add 
it to the salad, and toss. Check the seasonings and serve hot, warm, or at room 
temperature, adding the basil just before serving.  —T ony Rosenfeld
PER SERVING: 280 CALORIES  |  9G PROTEIN  |  36G CAR B  |  11G TOT AL FA T  |  3.5G SA T FA T  |   
6G MONO FA T  |  1G POL Y FA T  |  0MG CHOL  |  540MG SODIUM  |  1G FIBER
