M A I N  C O U R S E S   175spicy clams and sausage in marinara
SE R V E S  4 T O  6
 4  dozen hard-shelled clams, 
about 2 inches wide (little-
necks are good)
 2  Tbs. olive oil; more for the 
bread
 8  large cloves garlic, minced; 
plus 1 clove sliced in half for 
the bread
 1/4   tsp. crushed red pepper flakes
 2  tsp. fennel seeds
 1/4   lb. hot Italian sausage (casings 
removed), broken into pieces
 3/4  cup dry white wine
 2  cups Marinara Sauce (recipe 
on the facing page)
 8  slices French or Italian bread, 
1/2 inch thick
 3  Tbs. minced fresh flat-leaf 
parsleySer ving the clams in the shell gives you a ready spoon for this delicious sauce.
1. Cover the clams with cold water and use a stiff brush to scrub the shells; dis-
card any clams that are open and won’t close when thumped against another 
clam. Lift the clams out of the water, discard the water, and repeat washing 
two or three times, until no sand remains in the water.
2. Heat the oil in a large (5-quart) pot over medium-low heat. Add the minced 
garlic, red pepper flakes, and fennel and cook, stirring often, until the garlic is 
translucent, about 5 minutes. Increase the heat to medium; add the sausage 
and cook until the outside is no longer pink, about 2 minutes. Increase the heat 
to medium high, pour in the wine, and boil until it has reduced to about 3 Tbs., 
about 7 minutes. Stir in the marinara and bring to a quick boil. Put the clams in 
the pan, cover, and cook until they’ve opened, about 5 minutes; check often 
to avoid overcooking.
3. Meanwhile, toast the bread. Rub each toasted slice with the cut side of the 
garlic clove and brush with olive oil. 
4. Serve the clams in wide bowls with the parsley sprinkled on top and the 
toast tucked into the sides. —Nancy Verde Barr
PER SERVING: 350 CALORIES  |  20G PROTEIN  |  32G CA RB  |  13G TOT AL FA T  |  3G SA T FA T  |   
7G MONO FA T  |  2G POL Y FA T  |  50MG CHOL  |  880MG  SODIUM  |  3G FIBER
eggplant parmigiana
SE R V E S  4
FOR  THE  EGG PLAN T
 21/2   lb. eggplant (about 4 small or  
2 medium-large)
  Kosher salt
 3  cups olive oil (or a blend of 
olive and canola oils) 
FOR THE SAUCE
 3  Tbs. extra-virgin olive oil
 2  large cloves garlic, peeled and 
cut in half
 31/2   lb. plum tomatoes, peeled, 
seeded, and coarsely 
chopped, or two 28-oz. cans 
diced tomatoes (preferably 
San Marzano), drained
  Kosher salt
 12  large fresh basil leaves, torn  
in half
FOR ASSEM BLING
 6   oz. fresh mozzarella, torn into 
1/2-inch pieces
 11/4   cups lightly packed freshly 
grated Parmigiano-Reggiano 
(31/4 oz.)This authentic Italian recipe might surprise you—the eggplant is not breaded, 
so the result is a lighter, less greasy dish.
SALT THE EGGPLANT
Peel the eggplant and cut each crosswise into 1/4-inch-thick slices. Cover the 
bottom and sides of a large colander with a few eggplant slices and sprinkle 
generously with salt. T op with more layers of eggplant and salt until you run out 
of slices (you’ll end up with 5 or 6 layers). Let the colander sit in the sink or over 
a large bowl for at least 30 minutes and up to 2 hours. The salt will draw out 
water and reduce the eggplant’s ability to absorb oil.
MAKE THE SAUCE
Heat the 3 Tbs. oil in a 10-inch skillet over medium heat. Add the garlic and 
cook until fragrant and barely golden, 1 to 2 minutes. Add the tomatoes and 
1/2 tsp. salt. Raise the heat to medium high and cook, stirring occasionally, until 
the tomatoes begin to break down into a sauce, 20 to 25 minutes. If the sauce 
begins to dry up before the tomatoes break down, add warm water 1 Tbs. at a 
time. Lower the heat to medium and continue cooking, stirring occasionally, 
until you have a thick, chunky sauce, another 5 to 10 minutes. (T oo much liquid 
in the sauce will make the finished dish watery.) Turn off the heat, remove the 
garlic, and stir in the basil leaves. Season to taste with more salt, if necessary, 
and set aside.
FRY THE EGGPLANT
1. Dry the eggplant by lining a large plate with a paper towel and setting a few 
slices on it. T op with another paper towel and laye r on a few more slices. Repeat 
until you run out of slices.
2. Attach a candy thermometer to the side of a 3- to 4-quart saucepan. Add 
the olive oil and heat over medium-high heat. When the oil reaches 375°F , add 
as many eggplant slices as will fit comfortably in a single layer. Don’t crowd the 
pan. If you don’t have a candy thermometer, you can test the oil temperature 
by dipping a tip of one eggplant slice in the oil. If it immediately sizzles, the oil 
is ready.
3. Cook, turning once, until golden brown on both sides, about 2 minutes on 
the first side and 1 minute more on the second. Working quickly, pick up each 
slice with a slotted spoon and press the back of another large spoon against 
the slice to squeeze out as much oil as possible. Transfer to a plate lined with 
paper towels. Repeat until all the slices are fried, layering the fried eggplant 
between paper towels and adjusting the heat as necessary to maintain the 
frying temperature.
176  M A I N  C O U R S E S
Overlap the eggplant slices slightly, so 
the finished dish will hold together.assemble  
the dishM A I N  C O U R S E S   177ASS EM BLE AN D BAK E
1. Position a rack in the center of the oven and heat the oven to 450°F .
2. Layer about one-third of the eggplant slices so they overlap slightly on the 
bottom of an 8x10-inch (or similar size) baking dish. With the back of a spoon 
or an offset spatula, spread about one-third of the tomato sauce in a very thin 
layer over the eggplant. Evenly sprinkle about half of the mozzarella and 1 / 3 cup 
of the Parmigiano over the tomato sauce. Make another layer with one-third 
of the eggplant, one-third of the tomato sauce, the remaining mozzarella, and 
1 / 3 cup Parmigiano. Make one last layer with the remaining eggplant, tomato 
sauce, and Parmigiano. Bake until the cheese has melted evenly and the top is 
bubbly, with browned edges, 20 to 25 minutes. Let rest for at least 15 minutes 
before serving. —Laura Giannatempo
PER SERVING: 580 CALORIES  |  13G PROTEIN  |  21G CA RB  |  52G TOT AL FA T  |  11G SA T FA T  | 
33G MONO FA T  |  5G POL Y FA T  |  25MG CHOL  |  320M G SODIUM  |  9G FIBER
continued on p. 178 ➤