pickled cipollini onions with chile and cloves
MAK E S  1 PINT
 1/2     lb. small cipollini onions, 
peeled 
 1  sprig fresh thyme
 3/4      cup white-wine vinegar
 6  Tbs. sugar
 3  Tbs. olive oil
 4  whole cloves
 1  dried bay leaf 
 1  small fresh hot chile (about 
1 inch long)
 1  large clove garlic, sliced
  Kosher saltAvailable throughout the winter, cipollini onions vary in size, so choose the 
smallest ones you can find, preferably all the same size. Pickled, they’re great 
in composed salads, stuffed into a chicken before roasting, or used as a cock-
tail garnish.
1. Have ready a sterilized pint jar, lid, and band. Wedge the onions and thyme 
into the jar, packing them as tightly as you can without crushing them.
2. In a 1-quart saucepan, bring the vinegar, sugar, oil, cloves, bay leaf, chile, 
garlic, and 1 tsp. salt to a boil over medium heat. Pour the mixture over the 
onions until it reaches the top of the jar. 
Distribute the cloves, bay leaf, garlic, and 
chile evenly throughout the jar. Screw on the 
lid, cool to room temperature, and refriger-
ate for 3 days before using. The onions will 
keep in the refrigerator for at least 2 weeks.
PER 1/2    CUP: 40 CALORIES  |  1G PROTEIN  |  7G CARB   |  
1G TOT AL FA T  |  0G SA T FA T  |  0.5G MONO FA T  |  
0G POL Y FA T  |  0MG CHOL  |  30MG SODIUM  |  1G FIB ERcannellini beans with tuna and 
pickled cipollini onions
S E R V E S  4 
 2   15-oz. cans cannellini beans
 1   6- to 7-oz. jar or can imported 
tuna packed in olive oil
 10   to 12 Pickled Cipollini Onions 
with Chile and Cloves (recipe 
below), thickly sliced
   Juice from 1/2    lemon
   Kosher salt and freshly ground 
black pepper 
 2  Tbs. finely chopped fresh flat-
leaf parsleyCrunchy pickled onions, smooth 
starchy beans, and luscious 
oil-packed tuna are delicious 
together in this ready-in-minutes 
dish. Serve it alongside roast 
chicken or turkey, or as a light 
lunch with crusty bread.
1. Drain and rinse the beans. 
Transfer them to a serving bowl. 
2. Drain the tuna, flake, and add it to the beans. 
3. T oss the onions with the bean mixture. Add lemon juice, salt, and pepper to 
taste. Stir in the parsley and serve. —Eugenia Bone 
PER SERVING: 240 CALORIES  |  21G PROTEIN  |  32G CA RB  |  3.5G TOT AL FA T  |  0G SA T FA T  |  
0G MONO FA T  |  1G POL Y FA T  |  15MG CHOL  |  600MG  SODIUM  |  9G FIBER
S I D E S   207208  S I D E Sgrilled eggplant with olive,  
orange & anchovy vinaigrette
SER V E S  4 TO 6
FOR  THE EGG PLANT
 1  lar ge globe eggplant (about 
1 lb .), trimmed and cut into 
1/2-inch-thick rounds
 3  Tbs. extra-virgin olive oil; 
more as needed
  Kosher salt
FOR THE VINAIGRETTE
 2  anchovy fillets (preferably salt 
packed), rinsed
 1  small clove garlic
  Kosher salt
 1/4   cup black olives, such as 
Niçoise or Kalamata, rinsed 
well, pitted, and chopped 
finely
 1/4   cup extra-virgin olive oil
 1  Tbs. freshly squeezed orange 
juice 
 2  Tbs. red-wine vinegar; more as 
needed
 1/2   tsp. finely chopped orange 
zest
   Freshly ground black pepperOrange adds a nice brightness to this salty eggplant topping. If you’re not a 
fan of anchovies, don’t let that discourage you. The flavor mellows consider-
ably when combined with the other ingredients.
PREPARE THE EGGPLANT
Prepare a medium-high charcoal or gas grill fire. Brush both sides of the 
eggplant slices with olive oil and season with salt. Grill (covered on a gas grill; 
uncovered on a charcoal grill) until golden-brown grill marks form, 3 to  
4 minutes. Turn the eggplant and grill until tender and well marked on the 
other side, another 3 to 4 minutes. The interior should be grayish and soft 
rather than white and hard. Serve warm or at room temperature, by itself or 
with the vinaigrette below.
MAKE THE VINAIGRETTE
1. With a mortar and pestle, pound the anchovy, garlic, and a pinch of salt to 
a paste, or mince the anchovy and garlic, sprinkle with salt, and mash into a 
paste with the side of a chef’s knife. Unless you’re using a large mortar, trans-
fer the mixture to a medium bowl. Whisk in the olives, olive oil, orange juice, 
vinegar, and orange zest. Season to taste with salt, pepper, and more red-wine 
vinegar, if necessary. 
2. Just before serving, whisk the vinaigrette again and spoon it over grilled 
eggplant—you may not need it all—or serve on the side. —T asha DeSerio
PER SERVING: 180 CALORIES  |  1G PROTEIN  |  6G CARB   |  18G TOT AL FA T  |  2.5G SA T FA T  |   
13G MONO FA T  |  2G POL Y FA T  |  0MG CHOL  |  340MG  SODIUM  |  3G FIBER
208  S I D E S
S I D E S   209balsamic-glazed brussels sprouts 
with pancetta
SER V E S  2  O R  3
 2   ounces pancetta, cut into  
1/4-inch dice (about 1/2 cup)
 1  to 2 Tbs. extra-virgin olive oil
 10  ounces Brussels sprouts 
(about 18 medium sprouts), 
trimmed and halved through 
the core
 1/4   cup balsamic vinegar
   Kosher salt and freshly ground 
black pepper
 2  Tbs. unsalted butterThis simple one-pan preparation is long on flavor, thanks to the pancetta  
and balsamic vinegar. If pancetta is hard to come by, substitute 2 thick slices 
of bacon. 
1. In a heavy 10-inch straight-sided sauté pan set over medium-low heat, 
slowly cook the pancetta in 1 tablespoon of the oil until golden and crisp all 
over, 10 to 15 minutes. 
2. With a slotted spoon, transfer the pancetta to a plate lined with paper 
towels, leaving the fat behind. You should have about 2 Tbs. of fat in the pan; 
if not, add the remaining 1 Tbs. oil. Have ready 1/2 cup water. Put the pan over 
medium-high heat and arrange the sprouts cut side down in a single layer. 
Cook undisturbed until nicely browned, 2 to 3 minutes. When the sprouts are 
browned, add the water to the pan, cover immediately, and simmer until the 
sprouts are tender when poked with a fork or skewer, about 3 minutes. (If the 
water evaporates before the sprouts get tender, add more water, 1/4 cup at a 
time.) With a slotted spoon, transfer the sprouts to a plate.
3. Return the pan to medium-high heat and if any water remains, let it boil off. 
Add the balsamic vinegar and a few grinds of pepper. Boil the vinegar until it’s 
reduced to about 2 Tbs. and looks lightly syrupy, about 2 minutes. Reduce the 
heat to low, add the butter, and stir until melted. Return the sprouts and pan-
cetta to the pan and swirl and shake the pan to evenly coat the sprouts with 
the sauce. Season to taste with salt and more pepper and serve. —Ruth Lively
PER SERVING: 230 CALORIES  |  5G PROTEIN  |  10G CAR B  |  19G TOT AL FA T  |  8G SA T FA T  |   
8G MONO FA T  |  1.5G POL Y FA T  |  35MG CHOL  |  520 MG SODIUM  |  3G FIBER
how to trim brussels sprouts
Trim the base of the core to expose a 
fresh surface.Peel off and discard the outer layer 
of leaves, or more if necessary due to 
insect damage. Rinse the sprouts well.