40  P I Z Z A ,  C A L Z O N E  &  S T R O M B O L Ipizza with goat cheese
S E R V E S  4
 1/4  recipe Pizza Dough (recipe  
p. 34), refrigerated for a t least 
8 hours
   Unbleached all-purpose flour, 
for shaping the dough
 10  to 15 cloves roasted or slow-
cooked garlic
 5  to 6 oil-packed sun-dried 
tomatoes (drained and sliced)
 3  oz. crumbled goat cheese
 1/2  tsp. capers, rinsed and drained
  Pinch of dried oregano
   Extra-virgin olive oil, for 
drizzlingRichly topped and flavorful, this pizza isn’t missing mozzarella cheese.
1. Put the dough ball on a lightly floured surface, cover with a clean dishtowel, 
and let rise until almost double in size, about 45 minutes. Meanwhile, put a 
baking stone on the lowest rack in the oven and heat the oven to 500°F .
2. Put the proofed ball of dough on a lightly floured wooden board. Sprinkle a 
little more flour on top of the ball. Using your fingertips, press the ball down 
into a flat cake about 1/2 inch thick.
3. Flour your fingers and the board for easier handling. Stretch the dough to
a thickness of about 1/4 inch by using the backs of your hands or a rolling pin. 
It should be 9 or 10 inches across.
4. Lightly flour a wooden pizza peel (or the back of a baking sheet). Gently lift 
the dough onto the peel and scatter with the garlic, sun-dried tomatoes, goat 
cheese, capers, and oregano. Drizzle with extra-virgin olive oil.
5. Shake the peel gently back and forth to make sure the pizza isn’t stuck. 
Quickly slide the pizza onto the hot baking stone. Bake until the edges are 
golden, about 8 minutes. Using a peel, a wide spatula, or tongs, remove the 
pizza from the oven. —Evan Kleiman
PER SERVING: 1,220 CALORIES  |  39G PROTEIN  |  134G CARB  |  61G TOT AL FA T  |  22G SA T FA T  |  
30G MONO FA T  |  5G POL Y FA T  |  65MG CHOL  |  1,710MG SODIUM  |  10G FIBERWhen the pizza comes out of the oven, it’s topped with a salad of arugula, 
sun-dried tomatoes, red onion, balsamic vinegar, and extra-virgin olive oil. 
This salad is also great on its own. 
MAKE  THE DOUGH
Combine the water, yeast, and honey in a large mixing bowl or in the bowl of 
a stand mixer. Allow to sit until foamy, about 5 minutes. Add the remaining 
ingredients and stir until incorporated. Knead by hand on a floured surface for 
10 minutes, or in a mixer for 5 minutes. Cover the bowl and let the dough rise 
until doubled, about 11/2 hours.
ASSEM BLE THE PIZZA
1. Heat the oven to 450°F . If you’re using a baking stone, let it heat in the oven 
for 30 minutes. Combine the garlic and olive oil. 
2. Divide the dough in half . Roll out one piece of dou gh into a 12-inch round. If 
you’re using a baking stone, roll out the dough on a pizza peel or on parchment. 
Otherwise, roll it on a lightly floured surface and  transfer it to an oiled baking 
sheet. Brush 1 to 2 Tbs. of garlic oil on the dough.  Arrange half the mozzarella 
around the pizza, and lay 4 slices of prosciutto on  top. Bake until dark brown and 
crispy, 10 to 12 minutes. Repeat with the second pi ece of dough.
3. Meanwhile, toss all the salad ingredients together. When the pizzas are 
done, top each one with half the salad and serve. —Tony Mantuano
PER 1/4 PIZZA: 480 CALORIES  |  18G PROTEIN  |  50G CARB  |  23G TOT AL FA T  |  6G SA T FA T  |  
13G MONO FA T  |  2G POL Y FA T  |  35MG CHOL  |  1,450MG SODIUM  |  3G FIBER
pizza with prosciutto and arugula
M A K E S  T W O  1 2 - I N C H  P I Z Z A S
FOR THE PIZZA DOUGH
 11/4  cups warm water
 2 tsp. active dry yeast 
 1 Tbs. honey
 15  oz. (31/4 cups) all-purpose flour
 11/4  oz. (1/4 cup) whole-wheat flour
 1  Tbs. salt
 2 Tbs. extra-virgin olive oil
FOR THE PIZZA TOPPINGS
 1  clove garlic, minced fine
 1/4  cup olive oil
 1/2  lb. mozzarella (preferably 
fresh), cut into large cubes
 8  thin slices prosciutto 
(about 4 oz.)
FOR THE SALAD
 6  oz. arugula (about 7 cups, 
loosely packed), washed and 
tough stems removed
 6  very thin slices red onion
 6  sun-dried tomatoes, diced  
(if not packed in oil, rehydrate 
first)
 2  Tbs. extra-virgin olive oil 
 2  tsp. balsamic vinegar
P I Z Z A ,  C A L Z O N E  &  S T R O M B O L I   41grilled pizza with tomato-balsamic sauce,  
chicken & eggplant
M A K E S  2  L A R G E  O R  
3  M E D I U M  P I Z Z A S
FOR THE TOPPING
 1/4   cup fr eshly squeezed lemon 
juice
 3  Tbs. olive oil
   Kosher salt and freshly ground 
black pepper
 4  cloves garlic, minced
 1/4   tsp. crushed red pepper flakes
 2  boneless, skinless chicken 
breasts, pounded
 1  small eggplant, sliced 1/4 inch 
thick and brushed with  
olive oil
 1 / 3  cup grated Pecorino Romano 
or Parmigiano-Reggiano
FOR THE SAUCE
 8  large plum tomatoes, halved 
and oiled
 1  large onion, halved and oiled
 1  clove garlic, minced
 1  Tbs. chopped fresh rosemary
 1  Tbs. balsamic or red-wine 
vinegar
 2  Tbs. olive oil
   Kosher salt and freshly ground 
black pepper
 1  recipe Pizza Dough (recipe  
p. 34), refrigerated for at least 
8 hours
   Cornmeal or flour, for dusting 
the peelGrill the tomatoes and onion for the sauce and the toppings for the pizzas, as 
well as the dough, to get layer upon layer of smoky flavor.
MAKE THE TOPPING
1. Combine the lemon juice, olive oil, salt, pepper, garlic, and red pepper flakes 
in a nonaluminum dish. Add the pounded chicken and marinate in the refrig-
erator for at least 2 hours but not more than 6 hours.
2. Heat a gas grill to medium high or prepare a medium-hot charcoal fire. Grill 
the chicken until no longer pink inside, about 10 minutes total. Let cool slightly 
before cutting or tearing into shreds. Season the oiled eggplant slices with  
salt and pepper and grill until soft and slightly charred, turning once, about  
5 minutes total. Keep the chicken and eggplant at room temperature.
MAKE THE SAUCE
Cook the tomatoes and onion on the hot grill until softened and slightly 
charred, 8 to 10 minutes. Let cool slightly. Coarsely chop the tomatoes and 
onion, put them in a medium bowl, and mix in the garlic, rosemary, vinegar, and 
olive oil to make a chunky sauce. Add salt and pepper to taste.
ASSEMBLE THE PIZZA
1. For a gas grill, turn one burner on high and the other (or others) as low as 
possible. For charcoal, get the coals white-hot, and then brush them into a ring 
around the perimeter of the grill.
2. Portion the dough into 2 or 3 pieces, depending on the size pizza you want. 
Roll them into ovals or rounds, according to the shape of your grill. You’ll cook 
the pizzas one at a time.
3. Fold 1 piece of the dough in half, lift it, slap it on the cool part of the grill, and 
unfold it so the whole crust is on the cool part. (You don’t need to grease the 
grates.) Cover the grill, wait about 3 minutes, then lift the lid. The dough should 
be bubbling on top. Gingerly lift the edge with a spatula to look for light-brown 
grill marks, but not too much browning. If the bottom looks right, slide the 
dough onto a peel (or the back of a baking sheet) with two spatulas. Close the 
grill lid to preserve the heat.
4. Dust a second peel (or the back of another baking sheet) lightly with corn-
meal or flour. Invert the dough onto this peel so the raw side is down. Ladle 
on some of the sauce, spread it around, then add some of the eggplant and 
chicken and a sprinkling of the cheese.
5. With the peel, slide the pizza back onto the cool zone of the grill and close 
the lid. Cook the pizza for about 10 minutes, again until the bottom shows 
nice grill marks and is slightly crisp but not burned. Slide the finished pizza off 
the grill, cut it into manageable slices, and eat. Grill the remaining pizzas in the 
same way. —W. Park Kerr
PER SERVING: 570 CALORIES  |  22G PROTEIN  |  76G CARB  |  20G TOT AL FA T  |  4G SA T FA T  |  
12G MONO FA T  |  2G POL Y FA T  |  35MG CHOL  |  1,470MG SODIUM  |  7G FIBER
P I Z Z A ,  C A L Z O N E  &  S T R O M B O L I   43