6  S TA R T E R S ,  S A L A D S  &  S O U P Sstuffed mushrooms with  
pancetta, shallots & sage
M A K E S  3 0  H O R S  D ’ O E U V R E S
 35  to 40 cremini mushrooms 
(about 11/2 lb.), 11/2 to  
2 inches wide 
 3  Tbs. unsalted butter; more for 
the baking dish
 11/2  oz. pancetta, finely diced  
(1/4 cup)
 5  medium shallots, finely diced
 2  tsp. chopped fresh sage
  Pinch of dried red pepper 
  flakes
   Kosher salt and freshly ground 
black pepper
 2 / 3  cup coarse fresh breadcrumbs 
(preferably from a day-old 
rustic French or Italian loaf)
 1/4  cup freshly grated Parmigiano- 
Reggiano
 2  to 3 Tbs. extra-virgin olive oilThese can be prepared a day in 
advance and refrigerated—just 
let them come to room tempera-
ture before baking. Also, hold off 
on drizzling them with olive oil 
until just before baking. 
1. Position a rack in the center of 
the oven and heat the oven to 
425°F . Trim and discard the very 
bottom of the mushroom stems. 
Remove the mushroom stems and finely chop them, along with five of the 
largest mushroom caps. 
2. Heat a medium sauté pan over medium heat for 1 minute and add 2 Tbs. 
of the butter. When it has melted, add the pancetta and cook until it starts 
to render some of its fat, 1 to 2 minutes. Add the shallots, sage, and pepper 
flakes; cook gently until the shallots are tender, about 4 minutes (reduce the 
heat if the shallots begin to brown). Stir in the chopped mushroom stems  
and 1/2 tsp. salt. Cook, stirring frequently, until the mixture is tender, about  
3 minutes. Add the remaining 1 Tbs. butter. When it has melted, transfer the 
mushroom mixture to a bowl and stir in the breadcrumbs and Parmigiano. 
Season to taste with salt and pepper and let cool slightly.
3. Butter a shallow baking dish large enough to hold the mushrooms in one 
layer. Arrange the mushrooms in the dish and season the cavities with salt. 
Stuff each cavity with a rounded teaspoonful of the filling, or more as needed. 
The filling should form a tall mound. (You may have leftover filling; if you have 
extra mushrooms, keep stuffing until you run out of filling.) Drizzle the mush-
rooms with the olive oil and bake until the mushrooms are tender and the 
breadcrumbs are golden brown, 20 to 25 minutes. Transfer to a platter and 
serve warm. —Tasha DeSerio
PER SERVING: 35 CALORIES  |  1G PROTEIN  |  2G CARB  |  3G TOT AL FA T  |  1G SA T FA T  |  
1.5G MONO FA T  |  0G POL Y FA T  |  5MG CHOL  |  100MG SODIUM  |  0G FIBER
S TA R T E R S ,  S A L A D S  &  S O U P S   7crostini
M A K E S  1 6  C R O S T I N I
 16  baguette slices, between  
1/4 and 1/2 inch thick (from about 
1/2 baguette) 
 2 cloves garlic, cut in half 
 2  to 3 Tbs. extra-virgin olive oil
  Kosher salt Use these toasted baguette rounds as a base for the mostarda.
Adjust an oven rack to 6 inches from the broiler and turn the broiler to high. 
Rub one side of each bread slice with the garlic and set on a baking sheet  
lined with aluminum foil. Brush the garlic side with the oil and season with salt.  
Broil until the bread is browned, 1 to 2 minutes. Flip and broil the other side  
1 minute more. 
PER SERVING: 460 CALORIES  |  16G PROTEIN  |  72G CARB  |  13G TOT AL FA T  |  2G SA T FA T  |  
8G MONO FA T  |  2G POL Y FA T  |  0MG CHOL  |  1,090MG SODIUM  |  13G FIBERpear, cranberry &  
blood orange mostarda
M A K E S  A B O U T  2  C U P S
 1  medium blood orange
 2  sprigs fresh rosemary
 1  fresh bay leaf or 1/2 dried
 1 cup dry white wine
 2 Tbs. mild honey, such as clover
 1  Tbs. brown mustard seeds
 1  Tbs. yellow mustard seeds
  Kosher salt
 2  medium firm-ripe pears  
(preferably Bosc), peeled, 
cored, and cut into 1/2-inch dice
 1  cup fresh cranberries
  Crostini (recipe below)Serve this punchy northern  
Italian condiment spread 
on crostini with Robiola or 
Camembert cheese.
1. Peel a 1x3-inch strip of zest 
from the orange. Trim off any 
white pith from the strip with a 
paring knife and put the zest in a 
3-quart saucepan. Trim away the 
remaining orange peel and cut 
the segments free from the membranes, letting them fall into the saucepan. 
Squeeze the juice from the membranes into the saucepan.
2. Tie the rosemary and bay leaf into a cheesecloth bundle and add to the 
saucepan along with the wine, honey, mustard seeds, and 1 tsp. salt. Bring to a 
boil over medium heat. Reduce the heat to maintain a simmer and cook until 
the honey dissolves and the flavors meld a bit, about 2 minutes.
3. Add the pears and cranberries and return to a gentle simmer over medium-
low heat. Cook, stirring occasionally, until the fruit is tender and the liquid is 
syrupy, 25 to 30 minutes. Remove from the heat, discard the herb bundle and 
zest, and let cool. Serve at room temperature. The mostarda will keep in the 
refrigerator for 1 week. —Melissa Pellegrino
PER 2 TBS: 45 CALORIES  |  0G PROTEIN  |  8G CARB  |  0G TOT AL FA T  |  0G SA T FA T  |
0G MONO FA T  |  0G POL Y FA T  |  0MG CHOL  |  70MG SODIUM  |  1G FIBER
S TA R T E R S ,  S A L A D S  &  S O U P S   9
eggplant parmigiana rolls with 
pine nuts and baby arugula
S E R V E S  8
 41/2  Tbs. plus 1/2 cup extra-virgin 
olive oil
 1/2  medium yellow onion, cut into 
medium dice
 1  clove garlic, chopped
 3  cups peeled, seeded, and 
chopped fresh plum tomatoes 
(6 to 8 tomatoes)
   Kosher salt and freshly ground 
black pepper
 2  Tbs. pitted and very coarsely 
chopped Kalamata or Niçoise 
olives
 1  Tbs. capers, rinsed and 
coarsely chopped if large
 1  Tbs. plus 1/2 cup vegetable oil
 1  baby (Italian) eggplant (about 
1/2 lb.) or 1/2 small regular 
eggplant, cut into large dice  
(21/2 cups)
 2  Tbs. finely grated  
Parmigiano-Reggiano
 2  Tbs. toasted pine nuts 
 2  Tbs. freshly squeezed lemon 
juice (from 1 lemon) 
 1  Tbs. thinly sliced fresh basil
 3  small zucchini (about 1 lb. 
total)
 2  cups panko
 1/2  cup unbleached all-purpose 
flour
 2  large eggs, beaten
 5  oz. baby arugula (6 lightly 
packed cups)
 1/4  cup shaved Parmigiano- 
ReggianoThis addictive first course features breadcrumb-coated zucchini ribbons 
rolled around an eggplant filling.
1. Heat 1 Tbs. olive oil in a 3-quart saucepan over medium heat. Add the onion 
and garlic and cook until soft and slightly browned, about 3 minutes. Add the 
tomatoes, 1/4 tsp. salt, and a grind of pepper and simmer, stirring frequently, 
until the tomatoes cook down to a dry sauce, 20 to 25 minutes, reducing the 
heat to medium low if necessary. Off the heat, stir in the olives, capers, 1/2 Tbs. 
olive oil, and salt and pepper to taste.
2. Heat 1 Tbs. each olive oil and vegetable oil in a 12-inch skillet over high 
heat. Add the eggplant and cook, stirring occasionally, until tender and well 
browned on several sides, 3 to 5 minutes. Transfer to a bowl and cool to room  
temperature.
3. T o the eggplant, add the finely grated Parmigiano, 1 Tbs. of the pine nuts, 
1 Tbs. lemon juice, the basil, and about half of the tomato sauce. Season to 
taste with salt and pepper. 
4. Using a mandoline, slice the zucchini lengthwise about 1 / 8 inch thick. Select 
the 24 widest, longest slices and arrange them in a single layer on paper 
towels. Sprinkle lightly with salt and let sit until pliable, about 3 minutes—you 
can shingle the layers of zucchini between paper towels to save space. Pat dry. 
Arrange 3 slices of zucchini on a work surface, overlapping them lengthwise. 
Spread a heaping tablespoon of the eggplant mixture near one end of the 
zucchini ribbons and roll the zucchini around the filling to make a roll. Set 
aside, seam side down, and repeat with the remaining ingredients to make  
8 rolls total. You may not need all the filling.
5. Put the panko, flour, and eggs in 3 shallow bowls. Lightly coat each roll in the 
flour, then dip it in the eggs, and coat in the breadcrumbs—it’s fine if it isn’t 
perfectly coated. 
6. Heat the 1/2 cup olive oil and 1/2 cup vegetable oil in a 10-inch, straight-sided 
sauté pan over medium heat. Working in two batches, fry the rolls until golden 
brown on all sides, 2 to 3 minutes per side. As each batch finishes, transfer to  
a paper-towel-lined plate and sprinkle lightly with salt.
7. While the rolls cook, reheat the remaining sauce in a small saucepan, adding 
about 1/4 cup water, or enough to thin to a wet sauce. 
8. Whisk the remaining 2 Tbs. olive oil and 1 Tbs. lemon juice in a small bowl. 
T oss the arugula with the dressing and season to taste with salt and pepper. 
Serve the rolls topped with the sauce, remaining pine nuts, and shaved 
Parmigiano, with the salad on the side. —Mik ey Price 
PER SERVING: 250 CALORIES  |  5G PROTEIN  |  16G CARB  |  19G TOT AL FA T  |  3G SA T FA T  |  
12G MONO FA T  |  2.5G POL Y FA T  |  55MG CHOL  |  170MG SODIUM  |  3G FIBER