112  PASTAravioli with  
grilled vegetable sauce
M A K e S  4  C U P S  S A U C e ;  S e r v e S 
4  W I T H  S A U C e  L e F T  O v e r
 1  medium red onion, halved 
(skin on)
 3  red bell peppers
 2  yellow bell peppers
 1  hot fresh green chile, such as 
jalapeño
 1  portabella mushroom (4 to 
5 inches in diameter), wiped 
clean and stem removed
 1/2   medium eggplant, peeled and 
sliced 1/2 inch thick
 2  cups chopped tomatoes,  
preferably fresh plum  
tomatoes or early Girls (1 lb.)
 3  cloves garlic 
 3  Tbs. extra-virgin olive oil
 1/4   cup heavy cream
 1  lb. cheese ravioli
   Freshly grated Parmesan  
(optional)This sauce recipe will cover 2 lb. 
of pasta, so you can freeze half 
to enjoy later. The sauce is also 
delicious over tortellini, gnocchi, 
or even polenta. 
1. Prepare a medium-hot char-
coal fire or heat a gas grill for  
20 minutes on high. Put the 
onion, peppers, chile, mushroom, 
and eggplant slices on the grill. 
Grill the onion until it can be easily pierced by a skewer (about 45 minutes), 
the peppers and chile until charred black and the skins are blistering (about  
20 minutes), the mushroom until soft and golden brown (about 20 minutes), 
and the eggplant until branded with grill marks (about 15 minutes). When the 
peppers and chile are cool enough to handle, peel them and remove their 
seeds. Peel the onion. Put the onion, peppers, chile, eggplant, mushroom, 
chopped tomatoes, and garlic in a food processor. Process until the vegeta-
bles are a purée. Pass through a food mill or a strainer and transfer to a 
saucepan; stir in the olive oil and cream. Turn the heat to medium, bring to a 
gentle boil, and then simmer until the sauce is dense, smooth, and reduced to 
about 4 cups, 30 to 40 minutes. 
2. Meanwhile, bring a large pot of well-salted water to a vigorous boil and add 
the ravioli. Cook until the ravioli are puffy and bobbing on top of the water, 
pushing them down occasionally (if using frozen ravioli, follow the directions 
on the package). T est one to be sure it’s fully cooked; drain and then cover 
with the sauce. Serve with freshly grated Parmesan cheese, if you like.  
—Clifford Wright
PER SERVING: 500 CALORIES  |  17G PROTEIN  |  57G CA RB  |  25G TOT AL FA T  |  10G SA T FA T  |   
11G MONO FA T  |  2G POL Y FA T  |  65MG CHOL  |  430M G SODIUM  |  10G FIBER
PASTA  113rigatoni with summer squash,  
spicy sausage & goat cheese
S e r v e S  4  T O  6
  Kosher salt
 1  lb. dried rigatoni
 3  Tbs. extra-virgin olive oil
 3/4   lb. bulk hot Italian sausage (or 
links, casings removed)
 1 / 3   cup finely chopped shallots 
(about 3 medium) 
 2  cups 3/4-inch-diced yellow and 
green summer squash
 3  oz. fresh goat cheese, crum-
bled (about 3/4 cup)
 2  tsp. finely chopped fresh flat-
leaf parsley
   Freshly ground black pepper
 1/4   cup grated Parmigiano- 
reggiano (optional)Goat cheese brings the flavors of this pasta together while adding its own  
rich nuance.
1. Bring a large pot of well-salted water to a boil over high heat. Put the rigatoni 
in the boiling water and cook until just shy of al dente, about 10 minutes. 
2. While the pasta cooks, heat 1/2 Tbs. of the oil in a 12-inch skillet over medium-
high heat. Add the sausage and cook, breaking it into pieces with a spatula or 
spoon, until it’s almost cooked through, 3 to 5 minutes. Using a slotted spoon, 
transfer the sausage to a bowl. Pour the fat out of the skillet but do not wipe 
it clean. Heat the remaining 21/2 Tbs. oil in the skillet over medium heat and 
cook the shallots until they begin to soften, about 1 minute. Raise the heat to 
medium high and add the squash. Cook, stirring frequently, until the squash is 
barely tender, 3 to 5 minutes.
3. Reserve 1/2 cup of the pasta cooking water and drain the rigatoni. Return 
the rigatoni to its cooking pot and add the sausage, the squash mixture, and 
2 Tbs. of the reserved pasta water. T oss over medium heat until the sausage 
is cooked through and the rigatoni is perfectly al dente, about 3 minutes. Add 
more of the pasta water as necessary to keep the dish moist. 
4. Remove from the heat, add the goat cheese and parsley, and toss until 
the cheese melts and coats the pasta. Season to taste with salt and pepper, 
transfer to warm shallow bowls, and top each serving with some of the grated 
Parmigiano, if using. —Scott Conant
PER SERVING: 500 CALORIES  |  19G PROTEIN  |  61G CA RB  |  19G TOT AL FA T  |  6G SA T FA T  |   
9G MONO FA T  |  2G POL Y FA T  |  25MG CHOL  |  760MG  SODIUM  |  3G FIBER
114  PASTAorecchiette with caramelized garlic,  
sausage & broccoli
S e r v e S  4
 10  oz. broccoli crowns, cut into  
11/2-inch florets 
 1/4   cup extra-virgin olive oil
 3/4   lb. sweet Italian sausage, 
(casings removed) crumbled 
into 1-inch pieces
 3  cloves garlic, very thinly sliced 
   Kosher salt and freshly ground 
black pepper
 8  oil-packed sun-dried tomatoes, 
drained and cut into thin strips
 1  Tbs. chopped fresh thyme
 3/4   lb. dried orecchiette 
 1  Tbs. fresh lemon juice; more  
to taste
 3  Tbs. grated Parmigiano- 
reggiano; more for serving
 3  scallions (white and green 
parts), thinly slicedSubstitute penne if you don’t have orecchiette.
1. Put a large pot of salted water on to boil. Fill a large bowl with cold water. 
Blanch the broccoli in the boiling water until it softens to a tender crunch, 1 to 
2 minutes. Transfer it to the bowl of cold water. 
2. Heat 2 Tbs. of the oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat for 1 minute. 
Add the sausage and sauté, stirring, until it browns and is just cooked through, 
about 6 minutes. Transfer to a plate. 
3. Put the pasta in the water.
4. Reduce the heat under the skillet to medium low; add the remaining 2 Tbs. 
oil and the garlic. Season with salt and cook, flipping the pieces occasionally, 
until they start to brown, 3 to 4 minutes. Raise the heat to high, drain the broc-
coli, and add it to the skillet, along with the sausage. Cook until everything is 
heated through, about 1 minute. Stir in the sun-dried tomatoes and thyme. 
5. Finish cooking the pasta until it’s just tender, about 10 minutes total. 
Reserve 1 cup of the pasta water. Drain the pasta and add it to the skillet with 
the broccoli. Raise the heat to high and toss well for 30 seconds. If the pasta 
appears dry, add 1/2 cup of the reserved pasta water. Stir in the lemon juice, 
Parmigiano, and scallions. Add more salt, pepper, or lemon juice to taste. 
Serve immediately, sprinkled with more Parmigiano. —T ony Rosenfeld
PER SERVING: 760 CALORIES  |  36G PROTEIN  |  77G CA RB  |  36G TOT AL FA T  |  9G SA T FA T  |   
21G MONO FA T  |  4G POL Y FA T  |  45MG CHOL  |  910M G SODIUM  |  8G FIBER
