pizza dough
M A K E S  4  I N D I V I D U A L  P I Z Z A S 
O R  C A L Z O N E S  O R  
2  S T R O M BO L I ;  E A C H  S E R V E S  4
 1  lb. (31/2 cups) unbleached 
bread flour; more as needed
 2  tsp. sugar or honey
 11/2   tsp. table salt (or 21/2 tsp.  
kosher salt)
 11/4   tsp. instant yeast
 11/2   Tbs. extra-virgin olive oil; 
more as needed
   Semolina flour (optional)This versatile dough also works for calzones and stromboli. It’s best to mix the 
dough at least a day ahead. It keeps for 3 days in the refrigerator or 3 months 
in the freezer.
1. Combine the flour, sugar or honey, salt, yeast, and olive oil in a large bowl 
or in the bowl of an electric stand mixer. Add 11 fl. oz. (11/4 cups plus 2 Tbs.) of 
cool (60° to 65°F) water. With a large spoon or the paddle attachment of the 
electric mixer on low speed, mix until the dough comes together in a coarse 
ball, 2 to 3 minutes by hand or 1 to 2 minutes in the mixer. Let the dough rest, 
uncovered, for 5 minutes.
2. Knead the dough: If using an electric mixer, switch to the dough hook. Knead 
the dough for 2 to 3 minutes, either by hand on a lightly floured work surface or 
with the mixer’s dough hook on medium-low speed. As you knead, add more 
flour or water as needed to produce a ball of dough that is smooth, supple, 
and fairly tacky but not sticky. When poked with a clean finger, the dough 
should peel off like a Post-It ® note, leaving only a slight residue. It may stick 
slightly to the bottom of the mixing bowl but not to the sides.
3. Chill the dough: Lightly oil a bowl that’s twice the size of the dough. Roll the 
dough in the bowl to coat it with the oil, cover the top of the bowl tightly with 
plastic wrap, and refrigerate for at least 8 hours and up to 3 days. It will rise 
slowly in the refrigerator but will stop growing once completely chilled. If the 
plastic bulges, release the carbon dioxide buildup by lifting one edge of the 
plastic wrap (like burping it) and then reseal.
4. T o make a pizza, follow the directions on the facing page.
5. T o freeze the dough: After kneading the dough, divide it into 4 pieces for 
pizzas or calzones or 2 pieces for stromboli. Freeze each ball in its own zip-top 
freezer bag. They’ll ferment somewhat in the freezer, and this counts as the 
rise. Before using, thaw completely in their bags overnight in the fridge or at 
room temperature for 2 to 3 hours. Then treat the dough exactly as you would 
regular overnighted dough, continuing with the directions for making pizzas, 
calzones, or stromboli. —Peter Reinhart
tips for making pizza
Carefully stretch the pizza dough into a circle with your hands 
and knuckles. If the dough is resistant to stretch, let it rest for a 
few minutes. 
Spread on the pizza sauce with a light hand to avoid  
a soggy crust.no-cook tomato sauce
M A K E S  3 1/4  C U P S
 1   28-oz. can crushed or ground 
tomatoes
 2  Tbs. red-wine vinegar or 
lemon juice
 1  tsp. dried (or 1 Tbs. finely 
chopped fresh) oregano, basil, 
marjoram, thyme, or parsley 
(optional)
 3   to 5 cloves garlic, minced or 
pressed (optional)
   Kosher salt or table salt and 
freshly ground black pepperCanned crushed tomatoes plus mixed herbs combine for a simple, yet  
flavorful sauce.
Whisk the tomatoes, vinegar or lemon juice, and any optional ingredients in a 
bowl. Add just enough water to thin the sauce so that it is easy to spread. Use 
thinner sauce for pizza and thicker sauce for stromboli and calzones. Season 
with salt and pepper to taste. The sauce can be refrigerated for a week or 
frozen for up to 6 months.
PER 1/4 CUP: 20 CALORIES  |  1G PROTEIN  |  5G CARB  |  0G TOT AL FA T  |  0G SA T FA T  |
0G MONO FA T  |  0G POL Y FA T  |  0MG CHOL  |  170MG SODIUM  |  1G FIBER
 
pizza topping ideas
E N O U G H  F O R  O N E  1 2 - I N C H 
P I Z Z AThe key to these pizzas is to use only a small amount of sauce and cheese.  
T oo much sauce will make the dough soggy, and too much cheese will make  
it greasy.  
CLASSIC MARGHERITA PIZZA
For each pizza, you’ll need about 1/4 cup No-Cook T om ato Sauce (recipe above), 
2 to 3 oz. sliced fresh mozzarella or 1/4 cup grated low-moisture mozzarella, 
and 4 to 6 large basil leaves, thinly sliced (save the basil for topping the pizza 
right after it comes out of the oven).
PER SERVING: 670 CALORIES  |  28G PROTEIN  |  94G CARB  |  20G TOT AL FA T  |  8G SA T FA T  |  
8G MONO FA T  |  2G POL Y FA T  |  45MG CHOL  |  1,400MG SODIUM  |  4G FIBER
BETTER THAN PEPPERONI PIZZA 
You can certainly use pepperoni, which is really just an Americanized version 
of a spicy Italian Calabrese-style salume. But there are a number of excellent 
Italian cured salami products, including the always popular Genoa salami and 
various types of garlic and cayenne versions. For these quick-cooking pizzas, 
use about the same amount of tomato sauce and cheese as in the Margherita 
but add about 1/4 cup meat. You may crisp the meat in a dry sauté pan or in the 
oven first, and then put it under the cheese to keep it from burning.
PER SERVING: 810 CALORIES  |  34G PROTEIN  |  95G CARB  |  31G TOT AL FA T  |  13G SA T FA T  |  
13G MONO FA T  |  2.5G POL Y FA T  |  80MG CHOL  |  1,910MG SODIUM  |  5G FIBER
WHITE PIZZA (PIZZA BIANCA)
Instead of using tomato sauce, make a topping for each pizza by combining  
1 / 3 cup whole-milk ricotta, 1 / 3 cup grated low-moisture mozzarella or provolone, 
1 Tbs. olive oil, 1/4 tsp. dried or 2 tsp. chopped fresh oregano, 1/4 tsp. dried or  
1 tsp. chopped fresh thyme, and salt and pepper to taste. 
PER SERVING: 870 CALORIES  |  32G PROTEIN  |  92G CARB  |  41G TOT AL FA T  |  16G SA T FA T  |  
19G MONO FA T  |  3.5G POL Y FA T  |  75MG CHOL  |  1,380MG SODIUM  |  3G FIBER
P I Z Z A ,  C A L Z O N E  &  S T R O M B O L I   35