rigatoni with sun-dried tomato 
and fennel sauce
SE R V E S  4
  K osher salt
 2  Tbs. extra-virgin olive oil
 1  cup chopped fennel (about  
1/2 medium bulb)
 2  medium cloves garlic, very 
coarsely chopped
 1  cup heavy cream
 1  cup lower-salt chicken broth
 1 / 3   cup drained oil-packed sun-
dried tomatoes, very coarsely 
chopped
 1/4  tsp. crushed red pepper flakes
 1  Tbs. Pernod (optional)
 1  lb. dried rigatoniThis tasty cream sauce with a 
peppery kick is a great way to 
use up sun-dried tomatoes.
1. Bring a large pot of well-salted 
water to a boil. 
2. Meanwhile, heat the olive oil 
in a 10- to 11-inch straight-sided 
sauté pan over medium heat. 
Add the fennel and garlic and 
cook, stirring occasionally, until the fennel starts to soften and brown, about 
5 minutes. Stir in 1 cup water and the cream, chicken broth, sun-dried toma-
toes, pepper flakes, and 1 tsp. salt. Bring to a boil, reduce the heat, and simmer 
briskly, uncovered, until the tomatoes are plump and soft, about 15 minutes. 
3. Remove from the heat and stir in the Pernod, if using. Let cool slightly and 
then purée in a blender until smooth. Wipe out the skillet, return the sauce to 
the skillet, season to taste with salt, and keep hot. 
4. Cook the rigatoni until just barely al dente, 1 to 2 minutes less than pack-
age instructions. Drain well and return to the pot. Add the sauce and toss 
over medium-low heat for a minute or two so the pasta finishes cooking and 
absorbs some of the sauce. —Allison Ehri Kreitler
PER SERVING: 760 CALORIES  |  19G PROTEIN  |  94G CA RB  |  33G TOT AL FA T  |  16G SA T FA T  |   
13G MONO FA T  |  2.5G POL Y FA T  |  80MG CHOL  |  72 0MG SODIUM  |  6G FIBER
60  P A S TAhow to cut fennel
Always start by cutting trimmed fennel bulbs in half lengthwise through the core. If you 
intend to eat the fennel raw, remove most or all of the core; if you’re going to cook it, leave 
the core intact.
HOW TO TRIM FENNEL  Cut off the fennel stalks at their base, where they join the bulb. 
Discard the stalks and feathery fronds or use the fronds as a garnish or salad ingredient. 
Lightly trim the base of the bulb. Don’t remove too much of the base, or the fennel layers 
won’t hold together when you cut the bulb into wedges. Trim away any bruised areas. If the 
outer layer feels tough or spongy, remove it.
WEDGES  Cut each half-bulb into wedges. Thick (11/2 inch) wedges are best for braising. 
Small (1/2 inch)wedges are ideal for pan-frying, slow sautéing, and roasting.
THIN SLICES  Cut each bulb into quarters lengthwise, remove most or all of the core, and 
cut each quarter lengthwise into thin slivers (use a mandoline to make the slices paper-
thin). Cut the slices into large or small dice as directed by the recipe.
baked fettuccine with 
asparagus, lemon, pine nuts  
& mascarpone
SE R V E S  4
 2  Tbs. olive oil; more for the 
baking dish
 2  lb. medium-thick asparagus, 
ends trimmed, cut into 1-inch 
pieces on an angle
 8  scallions (white and tender 
green parts), cut into thin 
rounds
   Finely grated zest from  
2 lemons
   Juice from 1 lemon (about  
4 Tbs.)
   A few sprigs fresh thyme or 
savory, leaves chopped 
   Kosher salt and freshly ground 
black pepper
 1  Tbs. unsalted butter
 1  Tbs. unbleached all-purpose 
flour
 1  cup whole milk
 1  cup mascarpone
 1   cup freshly grated Grana 
Padano
   Small pinch of cayenne
   Generous pinch of ground 
allspice
 3/4   cup coarse fresh breadcrumbs
 1   lb. fresh fettuccine 
 1/2   cup pine nuts, lightly toastedMascarpone is a rich Italian 
cream cheese. It usually comes 
in a plastic tub and is available 
at most supermarkets. Grana 
Padano is a hard Italian grating 
cheese similar to Parmigiano 
but with a milder flavor and a 
lower price. 
1. Heat the oven to 450°F . Lightly coat a 9x13x2-inch ba king dish (or four
individual gratin dishes) with olive oil. Bring a l arge pot of salted water to a boil. 
Add the asparagus pieces and blanch until crisp-ten der, about 2 minutes. With 
a large slotted spoon, transfer them to a colander,  and run under cold water to 
preserve their green color. Drain well. Keep the wa ter boiling for the pasta.
2. In a large skillet, heat the olive oil over medium heat. Add the scallions 
and sauté for 1 minute to soften. Add the asparagus and sauté briefly, about  
1 minute. T ake the skillet off the heat and add half of the zest, the lemon juice, 
and the thyme or savory. Season with salt and pepper, mix well, and set aside.
3. In a medium saucepan, heat the butter and flour over medium heat, 
whisking until smooth. Cook for 1 minute, whisking constantly, to cook away 
the raw taste of the flour. Add the milk and cook, whisking all the while, until 
it comes to a boil. Lower the heat a bit and cook until smooth and slightly 
thickened (to about the consistency of heavy cream), 3 to 4 minutes.
4. Turn off the heat and add the remaining lemon zest, the mascarpone, and 
1/2 cup of the Grana Padano, whisking until the mixture is fairly smooth (there 
will be a slight grainy texture from the cheese). Season with the cayenne, the 
allspice, and more salt and pepper.
5. In a small bowl, combine the breadcrumbs and the remaining Grana 
Padano. Season with salt and pepper, add a drizzle of olive oil, and mix well.
6. Return the cooking water to a full boil and cook the fettuccine, leaving it 
slightly underdone. Drain well. Return the fettuccine to the cooking pot. Add 
the pine nuts, the mascarpone sauce, and the asparagus mixture. T oss and 
taste for seasoning.
7. Pour into the baking dish and sprinkle the breadcrumb mixture evenly over 
the top. Bake uncovered until bubbling and golden, 15 to 20 minutes. Serve 
immediately. —Erica DeMane
PER SERVING: 1,040 CALORIES  |  39G PROTEIN  |  96G CARB  |  57G TOT AL FA T  |  29G SA T FA T  |  
16G MONO FA T  |  10G POL Y FA T  |  195MG CHOL  |  77 0MG SODIUM  |  13G FIBER
P A S TA   61
