DE S S E R T S   233tips for making  
the crust
•  If you don’t have a food processor, 
put the cookies in a zip-top bag 
and crush them with a rolling pin.
•  Lay a piece of plastic wrap over 
the crumbs as you spread them 
so they won’t stick to your hands.
234  DE S S E R T S
orange-hazelnut olive oil cookies
M A K E S  ABO U T  6 D O Z E N  
CO O K I E S
 2  cups toast ed and skinned 
hazelnuts
 10  oz. (21/4 cups) unbleached  
all-purpose flour
 1  tsp. baking powder
 1/4  tsp. salt
 3/4   cup plus 2 Tbs. sugar
 1/2   cup extra-virgin olive oil
 2  large eggs
   Finely grated zest of  
2 medium oranges (about  
11/2 packed Tbs.)
 1  tsp. pure vanilla extractReminiscent of biscotti in texture, these not-too-sweet cookies are a perfect 
dipper for after-dinner coffee.
1. Finely grind the hazelnuts in a food processor. In a medium bowl, whisk the 
hazelnuts, flour, baking powder, and salt to blend. With a hand mixer or a stand 
mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, beat the sugar, oil, eggs, zest, and 
vanilla on low speed until the sugar is moistened, about 15 seconds. Increase 
the speed to high and mix until well combined, about 15 seconds more (the 
sugar will not be dissolved at this point). Add the dry ingredients and mix on 
low speed until the dough has just pulled together, 30 to 60 seconds. 
2. Divide the dough in half. Pile one-half of the dough onto a piece of parch-
ment. Using the parchment to help shape the dough, form it into a log 11 inches 
long and 2 inches in diameter. Wrap the parchment around the log and twist 
the ends to secure. Repeat with the remaining dough. Chill in the freezer until 
firm, about 1 hour. 
3. Position racks in the upper and lower thirds of the oven and heat the oven to 
350°F . Line 4 cookie sheets with parchment or nonstick baking liners.
4. Unwrap one log of dough at a time and cut the dough into 1/4-inch slices; set 
them 1 inch apart on the prepared sheets. Bake 2 sheets at a time until light 
golden on the bottoms and around the edges, about 10 minutes, rotating and 
swapping the sheets halfway through for even baking. Let cool completely on 
racks. The cookies will keep in an airtight container at room temperature for 
up to 1 week. —David Crofton
PER SERVING: 60 CALORIES  |  1G PROTEIN  |  6G CARB  |  4G TOT AL FA T  |  0G SA T FA T  | 
3G MONO FA T  |  0G POL Y FA T  |  5MG CHOL  |  15MG S ODIUM  |  0G FIBERDE S S E R T S   235gingerbread biscotti
M A K E S  ABO U T  2 4  BISC O T T I
 10   oz. (21/4 cups) unbleached  
all-purpose flour
 11/4   cups packed dark brown sugar 
 2   tsp. ground ginger
 11/4  tsp. baking powder
 1   tsp. ground cinnamon
 1/2  tsp. salt
 1/4   tsp. ground nutmeg
 1/4  tsp. baking soda
 4   oz. (1 cup) pecans, coarsely 
chopped 
 4   oz. (1/2 cup) lightly packed 
dried apricots, coarsely 
chopped
 1/4  cup molasses
 2  large eggs
 2  tsp. finely grated orange zest 
(from about 1 medium navel 
orange)Biscotti are very forgiving, and 
you can bake these to your taste: 
chewy, crunchy, or somewhere in 
between.
1. Position a rack in the center of 
the oven and heat the oven to 
350°F . Line a large cookie sheet 
with parchment.
2. In a stand mixer fitted with the 
paddle attachment, combine the 
flour, brown sugar, ginger, baking 
powder, cinnamon, salt, nutmeg, and baking soda on medium-low speed until 
well blended. On low speed, briefly mix in the pecans and apricots. In a mea-
suring cup, lightly whisk the molasses, eggs, and orange zest. With the mixer 
on low, slowly pour in the egg mixture. Continue mixing until the dough is well 
blended and comes together in large, moist clumps, 1 to 2 minutes.
3. Dump the dough onto an unfloured work surface. Divide into 2 equal piles 
(about 1 lb. each). Shape each pile into a log that’s 10 inches long and about 
11/2 inches in diameter, lightly flouring your hands as needed (the dough is a bit 
sticky).
4. Position the logs on the lined cookie sheet about 4 inches apart. 
5. Bake until the tops are cracked and spring back slightly when gently pressed, 
30 to 35 minutes. Transfer the sheet to a rack and let cool until the logs are 
cool enough to handle, about 10 minutes.
6. Carefully peel the biscotti logs from the parchment and transfer to a cutting 
board. Using a serrated knife, saw each log into diagonal slices 3/4 inch wide. Re-
turn the slices to the cookie sheet (no need for fresh parchment) and arrange 
them cut side down. It’s all right if they touch because they won’t spread.
7. Bake until the biscotti are dried to your taste, about 10 minutes (for slightly 
moist and chewy) to 20 minutes (for super-dry and crunchy). Transfer the 
cookie sheet to a rack and let the biscotti cool completely. The biscotti will still 
give slightly when pressed, but will harden as they cool. When cool, store in 
airtight containers. —Abigail Johnson Dodge
PER SERVING: 150 CALORIES  |  2G PROTEIN  |  26G CAR B  |  4G TOT AL FA T  |  0G SA T FA T  |   
2G MONO FA T  |  1G POL Y FA T  |  20MG CHOL  |  95MG SODIUM  |  1G FIBER
Like all dried spices, ground ginger’s intensity diminishes over time, 
so buy in small quantities and use it up within 6 months. If you’re 
not sure if your ground ginger is still fresh, smell it: It should have an 
assertive, spicy, gingery aroma.236  DE S S E R T Striple-chocolate biscotti
M A K E S  ABO U T  4 D O Z E N 
BISC O T T I
 9  o z. (13/4 cups) hazelnuts
 101/2   oz. ( 22 / 3 cups) unbleached all-
purpose flour
 31/2   oz. (1 cup) Dutch-processed 
cocoa powder
 11/2   tsp. baking soda
 1/4  tsp. salt
 2  cups sugar
 11/2   Tbs. finely ground dark-
roast coffee beans or instant 
espresso powder
 4  oz. (2 / 3 cup) chocolate chips 
 5  large eggs
 11/2   tsp. pure vanilla extract
 12  oz. white chocolateCovering one side of these 
chocolate biscotti with white 
chocolate gives them an elegant 
look and a moister texture. 
1. Heat the oven to 325°F . T oast 
the hazelnuts on a baking sheet 
for 10 to 15 minutes, until they 
emit a nutty aroma but haven’t 
turned dark brown inside. If they 
still have skins, cover the nuts 
with a dishtowel or paper towels 
for a few minutes after you take 
them out of the oven, and then rub the nuts with the towel to remove the 
skins. Set aside to cool.
2. Put the flour, cocoa powder, baking soda, salt, sugar, and ground coffee 
beans into the bowl of an electric mixer fitted with a paddle. Combine these 
ingredients on medium-low speed and then toss in the nuts and chocolate 
chips. In a separate bowl, lightly whisk together the eggs and vanilla extract. 
With the mixer running on low speed, slowly add the egg mixture to the mixing 
bowl and mix until the dough comes together. Remove the bowl from the 
mixer and mix in any remaining dry ingredients from the bottom by hand.
3. Divide the dough into 4 equal parts. With floured hands, roll each part into a 
log about 10 inches long and 2 inches in diameter. Place the logs 4 inches apart 
on greased or parchment-lined baking sheets. Bake the logs at 325°F for 30 to 
35 minutes, until the sides are firm, the tops are cracked, and the dough inside 
the cracks no longer looks wet. Remove the baking sheets from the oven and 
reduce the oven temperature to 300°F . Let the logs cool on the baking sheets 
for at least 10 minutes before slicing. Cut the logs on a slight diagonal into 
3/4-inch-thick slices. Place the biscotti flat on the baking sheet and dry them in 
the oven for about 25 minutes, until the biscotti offer resistance when 
pressed. Transfer the biscotti to a rack to cool.
4. While the biscotti are cooling, chop the white chocolate and melt it in a 
microwave on low power or in a double boiler over simmering water. With a 
knife, spread white chocolate on one cut side of each cooled biscotti. Put the 
biscotti, white-chocolate side down, on a parchment-lined baking sheet. 
Allow the chocolate to harden. Peel the biscotti from the parchment and 
store in an airtight container. —Emily Luchetti 
