DE S S E R T S   227how to make the classic sabayon
SABAYON BEGINS WITH EGG YOLKS.  
Pour the yolks into a stainless-steel or 
copper bowl that’s been cleaned of any 
green oxide. Add the sugar, a little at a 
time. Whisk the yolks and sugar until the 
mixture is light in color and air has been 
incorporated. 
A DOUBLE BOILER BEATS THE HEAT.  
Bring some water to a simmer in a sauce-
pan. Set the bowl over the water, but make 
sure it doesn’t touch the water or you’ll 
end up with scrambled eggs. T o ensure a 
smooth, light texture, whisk continuously 
throughout the cooking process.
STRIVE FOR RIBBONS AND AVOID 
LUMPS.  Whisk until the sabayon 
becomes frothy and thick, scraping the 
sides and bottom of the bowl. Remove the 
sabayon from the heat just as ribbons start 
to trail off the whisk. Continue to whisk for 
another minute to help set the sabayon. 
Serve immediately.carefully transfer the cookies to a rack to cool completely. Repeat with the 
leftover dough to make another 8 cookies.
ASSEMBLE THE DESSERT
For each serving, put one cookie on a plate.  Spoon about 1/2 cup of sabayon on 
top (you’ll have some left over). T op with a second cookie. Sift confectioners’ 
sugar on top. Spoon some of the blueberry sauce on the side, and garnish with 
a mint sprig, if using. —Bernice Fehringer
PER SERVING OF SABAYON: 300 CALORIES  |  5G PROTEIN  |  22G CARB  |  22G TOT AL FA T  |   
12G SA T FA T  |  7G MONO FA T  |  1G POL Y FA T  |  260 MG CHOL  |  160MG SODIUM  |  1G FIBER
PER COOKIE: 170 CALORIES  |  2G PROTEIN  |  15G CAR B  |  12G TOT AL FA T  |  7G SA T FA T  |   
3G MONO FA T  |  0G POL Y FA T  |  30MG CHOL  |  35MG SODIUM  |  1G FIBER
Before storing your berries, pick through them, 
discarding any squishy berries that may turn 
moldy and infect their healthy neighbors. Store 
the berries in the coldest part of the refrigerator, 
but not in a drawer, where it’s too humid, and don’t wash them until you’re ready to use them. Freshly 
picked, they can last for up to 2 weeks in an airtight 
container, although they can lose moisture during 
the second week and shrink slightly.Storing Blueberriestiramisù
S E RV E S  1 0  T O  1 2
 5  cups ho t brewed espresso (or 
double-strength drip coffee 
made with espresso roast)
 1  cup plus 2 Tbs. sugar
 2  Tbs. rum; more to taste  
(optional)
 4  large eggs, separated
 16  oz. (2 cups) mascarpone
 46  ladyfingers (approximately) or 
savoiardi cookies, preferably 
Balocco ®, Bonomi ®, or Elledi ® 
brands
 2  Tbs. unsweetened cocoa  
powder, or 1 to 2 oz. bitter-
sweet chocolateThis recipe calls for uncooked eggs, so keep the tiramisù refrigerated and 
serve it within 48 hours. If the uncooked eggs in this dish are a concern, use 
pasteurized eggs instead.
1. Pour the coffee into a large bowl and add 2 Tbs. of the sugar while it’s still 
hot. Stir well and let it cool to room temperature. Add the rum, if using.
2. Combine the egg yolks and the remaining 1 cup sugar in the bowl of a stand 
mixer fitted with the whisk attachment. Beat on medium-high speed until the 
yolks are pale yellow and fluffy, about 5 minutes. (The mixture will be fairly 
thick at first.) Add the mascarpone and beat until it’s fully incorporated into a 
smooth cream, another 2 to 3 minutes. Transfer to a large bowl.
3. Thoroughly wash and dry the stand mixer bowl and whisk. Put the egg whites 
in the bowl and whip on medium-high speed until they form medium-stiff 
peaks when you lift the beaters (the tips should curl over onto themselves 
just a little). With a rubber spatula, fold about one-quarter of the beaten 
whites into the mascarpone cream to lighten it. Then gently fold in the 
remaining whites, taking care not to deflate them. Cover with plastic wrap and 
refrigerate.
4. Submerge one ladyfinger in the cooled coffee until the coffee penetrates 
about halfway through, leaving the core dry (break it to check). This can take 
from 1 to 12 seconds, depending on the type of ladyfinger (see the sidebar  
below). You don’t want the ladyfinger to get completely soaked or it will 
become soggy and fall apart. You should be able to feel that the outside is soft 
but the inside is still firm.
5. Once you’ve determined the correct soaking time, submerge each lady-
finger individually, gently shake out excess coffee, and immediately set it in a 
9x13-inch baking dish; continue until you have one tight layer that covers the 
bottom of the dish. (You may need to break a few ladyfingers to fit in snugly.) 
Spread one-half of the mascarpone cream evenly on top of the ladyfingers.
6. Repeat the soaking procedure with the remaining ladyfingers to create a 
second snug layer, arranging them on top of the mascarpone cream as you 
did for the first layer. Spread the rest of the mascarpone cream evenly on top. 
Cover the dish with plastic wrap and refrigerate for at least 2 hours. Before 
serving, sift the cocoa powder or finely grate the chocolate over the top to 
evenly cover. —Laura Giannatempo
PER SERVING: 420 CALORIES  |  10G PROTEIN  |  46G CA RB  |  23G TOT AL FA T  |  11G SA T FA T  |   
8G MONO FA T  |  2G POL Y FA T  |  275MG CHOL  |  120M G SODIUM  |  1G FIBER
228  D E S S E R T SWhat will make or break your tiramisù is texture. 
The ladyfingers have to be just barely soaked 
through with coffee, moist but not soggy and falling 
apart. You’ll find two main types in supermarkets: 
packaged, cookie-style ladyfingers (usually imported from Italy) and soft, spongy ladyfingers 
commonly sold in clear packages in the bakery 
section of most supermarkets. The latter won’t do 
the trick. They get too soggy too fast, resulting in a 
sopping mess. Use the cookie-style instead.Choose the Right Type of Ladyfingers