pasta with tuna, tomato & green olives
S e r v e S  3  O r  4
 4  Tbs. extra-virgin olive oil
 2  to 3 large cloves garlic, minced
   Generous pinch of hot red 
pepper flakes
 3  Tbs. finely minced fresh  
flat-leaf parsley
 2  cups very finely chopped 
canned tomatoes, with juice 
 1  tsp. fennel seeds, crushed in a 
mortar or spice grinder
 1  can (6 to 7 oz.) imported tuna 
packed in olive oil, well drained 
and very finely minced
 1 / 3   cup pitted and quartered 
green olives
  Salt
 3/4   lb. dried penne, rigatoni, 
spaghetti, or perciatelliKeep canned tomatoes, canned tuna, and green olives around, and you can 
make this pasta at a moment’s notice. Don’t skip the fennel seeds, which 
complements the tomatoes and tuna and pulls this sauce together. Adjust the 
garlic and red pepper flakes to your taste, too, but be generous. 
1. Bring a large pot of salted water to a boil over high heat. Heat 3 Tbs. of the 
olive oil in a 12-inch skillet over medium heat. Add the garlic, hot red pepper 
flakes, and 2 Tbs. of the parsley and sauté briefly to release the fragrance of 
the seasonings. Add the tomatoes and fennel seeds. Bring to a simmer, adjust 
the heat to maintain the simmer, and cook, stirring occasionally, until the 
sauce is thick and well blended, about 10 minutes.
2. Stir in the minced tuna and then the olives. Season with salt and remove 
from the heat while you cook the pasta.
3. Cook the pasta in rapidly boiling water. When the pasta is a few minutes 
away from being finished, return the tomato sauce to medium heat and add 
enough of the hot pasta water—about 2 / 3 cup—to thin the sauce to a nice con-
sistency. Keep the sauce warm over low heat.
4. When the pasta is about 1 minute shy of al dente, scoop out and set aside 
1/2 cup of the pasta cooking water and then drain the pasta. Return the pasta 
to the hot pot and stir in the sauce. Cook together over moderately low heat 
for about 1 minute, stirring and adding some of the reserved pasta water if 
needed to thin the sauce. T ake the skillet off the heat and stir in the remaining 
1 Tbs. olive oil. Serve the pasta immediately in warm bowls, garnishing each 
portion with a little of the remaining parsley.  —Janet Fletcher
PER ¼ CUP: 540 CALORIES  |  24G PROTEIN  |  64G CAR B  |  21G TOT AL FA T  |  3G SA T FA T  |   
13G MONO FA T  |  3G POL Y FA T  |  10MG CHOL  |  800M G SODIUM  |  4G FIBER
144  P A S TAlinguine with clams and  
lemon-garlic oil
S e r v e S  4
 1  lemon 
 3/4   cup extra-virgin olive oil
 4  cloves garlic, thinly sliced
 3/4  lb. dried linguine
 1/4   tsp. crushed red pepper flakes
 2   lb. small clams, rinsed and 
scrubbed to remove grit 
 1 / 3   cup dry white wine
   Kosher salt and freshly ground 
black pepper 
 1/2   cup coarsely chopped fresh 
flat-leaf parsley; more for 
garnishFresh, in-the-shell clams are the 
key to getting true clam flavor, 
and tiny littlenecks are the most 
tender.
1. Put a large pot of salted water 
on to boil. 
2. Peel five 1-inch-wide strips 
of zest from the lemon with a 
peeler. Cut the lemon in half for 
juicing later.
3. Heat the oil in a large skillet over medium heat. Add the garlic and lemon 
strips and cook, shaking the pan occasionally, until the garlic starts to brown 
around the edges, about 3 minutes. Remove from the heat and use a fork to 
pick out and discard the lemon strips. Transfer a little more than ¼ cup of the 
oil (without the garlic) to a small bowl.
4. Put the pasta in the water.
5. Raise the heat under the skillet to high and add the pepper flakes and the 
clams. Cook the clams for 1 minute, shaking the pan. Pour in the wine and cook 
for 1 minute. Cover the pan and cook, shaking the pan occasionally, until all the 
clam shells open, 3 to 5 minutes. 
6. Finish cooking the linguine until it’s just tender, about 10 minutes total. Drain 
and add to the clams. Raise the heat to high and cook for 1 to 2 minutes, toss-
ing gently. Stir in the 1/2 cup parsley and a squeeze of lemon juice (about 1 Tbs.). 
7. Add more salt, pepper, or lemon juice to taste. Serve immediately, topped 
with a drizzle of the reserved lemon-garlic oil and more parsley.  
—T ony Rosenfeld
PER SERVING: 660 CALORIES  |  21G PROTEIN  |  72G CA RB  |  30G TOT AL FA T  |  4G SA T FA T  |   
21G MONO FA T  |  3G POL Y FA T  |  25MG CHOL  |  530M G SODIUM  |  4G FIBER
P A S TA   145linguine with shrimp, caramelized onion,  
pancetta & peas 
T o speed up this recipe, buy “easy-peel” shrimp, which have already been 
deveined; because they’re split down the back, they’re easier to peel. 
1. Bring a large pot of well-salted water to a boil over high heat.
2. Meanwhile, combine the pancetta and oil in a 12-inch nonstick skillet. Cook, 
stirring, over medium heat until the pancetta is just turning golden, 4 minutes. 
Add the onion and cook, stirring often, until golden brown, 5 to 8 minutes. Add 
the shrimp and cook, stirring, until pink and opaque, 1 to 2 minutes. Set aside 
off the heat.
3. Cook the linguine in the boiling water according to the package directions 
until al dente, adding the peas in the last minute or two of cooking. Reserve 
about 1/2 cup of the cooking water and then drain the pasta and peas.
4. Return the skillet to low heat, and add the pasta, peas, and ¼ cup cooking 
water. T oss, adding more water if the pasta seems dry. Season to taste with 
salt and pepper and serve.  —Jennifer Armentrout
PER SERVING: 730 CALORIES  |  41G PROTEIN  |  94G CAR B  |  19G TOT AL FA T  |  4.5G SA T FA T  |   
9G MONO FA T  |  3G POL Y FA T  |  190MG CHOL  |  1,40 0MG SODIUM  |  8G FIBERS e r v e S  2
  Kosher salt
 2   oz. thinly sliced pancetta, cut 
into 1- to 2-inch-long strips 
(about 1/2 cup)
 1   Tbs. extra-virgin olive oil
 1/2   medium onion, thinly sliced
 1/2   lb. large shrimp (31 to 40 per 
lb.), peeled, deveined, and cut 
in half lengthwise
 1/2  lb. dried linguine
 2 / 3  cup frozen peas
  Freshly ground black pepper