PASTA  133Genuine Parmigiano-Reggiano is made only in the 
Emilia-Romagna region of northern Italy, following 
stringent guidelines. The milk used to make the 
cheese comes from cows that spend most of their 
days grazing in grassy meadows. The farmers 
pay special attention to their animals, 
knowing that their reward will be a truly 
unique cheese, with an unrivaled 
texture and nutty taste. Each wheel is 
aged for at least 12 months before 
the Parmigiano-Reggiano 
stamp is imprinted on its 
rind and it’s ready for the 
market. 
Parmigiano-Reggiano 
is one of the most 
copied cheeses on the market, its imitators being Parmesan cheeses. These 
cheeses tend to be salt laden and mass produced 
from the milk of penned-in, grain-fed cows. There are 
no guidelines or rules to guarantee quality, and the 
cheese is often sold already grated or shredded.  
Because Parmigiano-Reggiano is far superior, we 
make a point of calling for the genuine item in our 
recipes. We also recommend that you purchase a 
chunk of the cheese and grate it freshly yourself, 
rather than buying it already grated. When you buy 
pregrated cheese, you have no way of knowing how 
long ago it was grated, and as the grated cheese 
sits, it loses moisture and flavor, eventually tasting 
more like sawdust than cheese. Grating the cheese 
yourself is well worth the small effort—the cheese will 
have more flavor and nuance, and your food will taste 
better for it. Why Parmigiano-reggiano?
fettuccine with tuna, lemon & fried capers
S e r v e S  4
  Kosher salt 
 1  lemon, scrubbed 
 1/4   cup plus 2 Tbs. extra-virgin 
olive oil; more for drizzling
 1/4   cup small (nonpareil) capers, 
rinsed, drained, and 
patted dry
 3  cloves garlic, thinly sliced 
 1  12-oz. or two 6-oz. cans 
solid white tuna in water, 
drained well
 1 / 8   tsp. crushed red pepper flakes
 3/4   lb. dried fettuccine
   Freshly ground black pepper
 3  Tbs. chopped fresh flat-leaf 
parsleyPair tuna with strong flavors that can stand up to it. In this recipe, crisp capers, 
thin slivers of garlic, and bright strips of lemon zest do just that. 
1. Bring a large pot of well-salted water to a boil. 
2. Using a zester tool (called a channel knife), zest the lemon into thin strips, 
or, using a vegetable peeler, shave off the zest, then slice into very thin strips. 
Juice the lemon to get 2 Tbs. juice. 
3. Heat ¼ cup of the oil in a 10-inch straight-sided sauté pan over medium 
heat. Add the capers and cook until they start to brown and get crisp, 3 to 
5 minutes. Stir in the lemon zest and cook until it starts to crisp and curl up, 
about 1 minute. Using a slotted spoon, transfer the capers and lemon zest to a 
plate lined with a paper towel—it’s fine if a few capers remain in the pan. 
4. Reduce the heat to medium low, add the garlic to the remaining oil in the 
pan, and cook, stirring, until it browns lightly but doesn’t burn, 2 to 3 minutes. 
Add the tuna and red pepper flakes and cook until the tuna just heats through, 
about 2 minutes. Remove from the heat. 
5. Meanwhile, cook the fettuccine in the boiling salted water, stirring often, 
until it’s just tender to the tooth (see the package for cooking time). Reserve  
1/2 cup of the pasta water and drain the pasta. 
6. Return the sauté pan to medium heat. Add the drained pasta, ¼ cup of the 
reserved pasta water, 2 Tbs. of the lemon juice, and the remaining 2 Tbs. olive 
oil. Cook, tossing and stirring, for 1 to 2 minutes to blend the flavors. If the 
pasta isn’t tender, add the remaining cooking water and continue to cook and 
stir until done. Season to taste with salt, pepper, and more lemon juice. 
7. Serve immediately, drizzled with a little olive oil  and sprinkled with the capers, 
lemon strips, parsley, and a few grinds of black pepper. —T ony Rosenfeld
PER SERVING: 610 CALORIES  |  32G PROTEIN  |  66G CA RB  |  24G TOT AL FA T  |  3.5G SA T FA T  |  
16G MONO FA T  |  3.5G POL Y FA T  |  35MG CHOL  |  86 0MG SODIUM  |  3G FIBER
134  P A S TAangel hair pasta with mussels 
and spicy tomato sauce
S e r v e S  4 
 2  Tbs. olive oil
 1  medium onion, chopped
 1  small bulb fennel, chopped
 2  Tbs. Pernod or other anise-
flavored liqueur
 5  threads saffron, crushed and 
soaked in 1 Tbs. warm water
 4  cloves garlic, minced
 1  tsp. chopped fresh thyme, or 
1/4 tsp. dried
 3/4   cup crisp, dry white wine
 1   28-oz. can whole plum toma-
toes, with juice (or 4 large ripe 
tomatoes, peeled and seeded)
 11/2   lb. medium mussels, cleaned 
and sorted 
 3/4   lb. angel hair pasta
   Salt and freshly ground black 
pepper 
 1/2   cup chopped fresh flat-leaf 
parsleySteaming the mussels directly in 
the pasta sauce streamlines the 
recipe and means more flavor 
in the sauce. If you don’t have 
Pernod, add 1/4 tsp. crushed fennel 
seeds. 
1. Heat the olive oil in a large, deep 
skillet (with a lid) or a Dutch oven 
over medium heat. Add the onion 
and cook for 2 to 3 minutes. Add 
the fennel and cook until the onion is translucent, another 8 to 10 minutes. 
Increase the heat to high, and add the Pernod, saffron, garlic, and thyme. After 
1 minute, stir in the white wine and boil for 5 min utes. Add the tomatoes, reduce 
the heat, and simmer for 15 to 20 minutes, stirring to break up the tomatoes. 
2. Meanwhile, put water on to boil for the pasta. When the tomato sauce has 
cooked for about 20 minutes, scatter the mussels over the top and cover the 
pot. Steam until the shells are open, 8 to 10 minutes. Discard any that won’t 
open. Season the sauce with salt and pepper to taste and keep it warm while 
you boil the pasta in salted water. Divide the pasta and sauce among 4 serving 
bowls and sprinkle with chopped parsley. Serve immediately. —Molly Stevens
PER SERVING: 590 CALORIES  |  31G PROTEIN  |  87G CA RB  |  12G TOT AL FA T  |  2G SA T FA T  |   
6G MONO FA T  |  2G POL Y FA T  |  40MG CHOL  |  580MG  SODIUM  |  7G FIBER
P A S TA   135cleaning and sorting mussels
Scrub and rinse the shells to keep 
grit out of your dish. The shells of 
cultivated mussels are usually free 
of barnacles and other debris, so this 
step doesn’t take long.
Trim the tough beard before cooking. 
This rough string anchored the mussel to 
the underwater surface on which it grew.
Give mussels a tap and a snap to see if 
they’re alive. If alive, open ones will close 
when tapped, and the shells of closed 
ones will not easily separate when slid 
between thumb and finger. 