tagliata con rucola  
(sliced steak with arugula)
SE R V E S  2
 2  strip or top sirloin st eaks, 6 oz. 
each, completely trimmed of 
any fat or sinew
 11/2   tsp. kosher salt
 1  Tbs. coarsely cracked black 
pepper
 1/4   cup extra-virgin olive oil
 4  tsp. chopped fresh rosemary
 3  oz. arugula (about 31/2 cups, 
loosely packed), washed, and 
tough stems removed
 1/2   lemon, cut in wedgesT o capture all the great juices from the beef that mingle with the lemon juice 
and arugula, serve this dish in the same pan it’s cooked in. The trickiest part is 
finding a plate or pan that can go on a hot grill or stove top and yet is attrac-
tive to serve in. Fajita pans and enameled cast-iron gratin pans work well. It’s 
best to cook each serving separately, but if you have to double up, make sure 
you don’t crowd the meat in the pan. Serve with bread to sop up the juices in 
the pan. 
Season the beef with a little bit of the salt and pepper. Sear the steaks briefly 
on a hot grill or in a heavy pan to brown the outside. Remove from the grill (the 
center will still be raw). When cool enough to handle, slice the steaks on an 
angle into 1/2-inch slices. Fan them so they’re almost flat on individual heat-
proof platters. Drizzle with the olive oil and sprinkle on the rosemary and the 
rest of the salt and pepper. Put the platters on the grill or on a burner and heat 
until the oil begins to bubble and the meat is cooked halfway through, about 
5 minutes. The top will still look rare. Remove from the grill and surround each 
steak with the arugula. Squeeze the lemon on the arugula to taste (if you put 
the juice on the meat, it will turn the beef gray). Serve immediately.  
—T ony Mantuano
PER SERVING: 540 CALORIES  |  38G PROTEIN  |  7G CAR B  |  41G TOT AL FA T  |  9G SA T FA T  | 
26G MONO FA T  |  3G POL Y FA T  |  95MG CHOL  |  1,70 0 MG SODIUM  |  3G FIBER
M A I N  C O U R S E S   173Freeze the extra sauce in small 
portions to make thawing fast 
and easy. Once thawed, the 
sauce will keep in the fridge for  
3 or 4 days.
1. Cut each steak in half (to get 
four steaks) and pat them dry 
with paper towels. Season both 
sides with salt and pepper.
2. In a 12-inch heavy frying pan 
over medium heat, melt the but-
ter with the oil. Add the onion, season with salt and pepper, and cook, stirring 
occasionally, until it is well softened and translucent but not browned, 10 to  
12 minutes. Transfer the onion to a large plate with a slotted spoon. If there 
isn’t much fat left in the pan, add another 1/2 Tbs. each of butter and oil. 
3. Increase the heat to medium high. Put the steaks in the pan and sear until 
deeply browned on both sides and medium rare (cut into one to check), 2 to  
3 minutes per side. Transfer to the plate with the onion. 
4. Pour the wine into the pan. As it comes to a boil, deglaze the pan juices by 
scraping the bottom of the pan well with a wooden spoon. Boil until it reduces 
to about 3 Tbs., 2 to 3 minutes. Add the reserved onion and the steaks; pour in 
the marinara sauce and stir. Bring to a boil, reduce the heat, and simmer just 
until the onion is hot, 1 to 2 minutes. Garnish each serving with the chopped 
parsley. —Nancy Verde Barr
PER SERVING: 480 CALORIES  |  27G PROTEIN  |  14G CA RB  |  34G TOT AL FA T  |  14G SA T FA T  |   
16G MONO FA T  |  2G POL Y FA T  |  100MG CHOL  |  1,2 20MG SODIUM  |  3G FIBER
marinara sauce
M A K E S  9 1/2  T O  1 0  C U P S
 61/2   lb. canned whole Italian plum 
tomatoes (three 35-oz. cans), 
with juice
 3  Tbs. olive oil; more if needed
 5  large cloves garlic, thinly 
sliced, or 1 medium-large 
onion, finely chopped
 1/2   tsp. crushed red pepper flakes
 1  Tbs. kosher salt
 1/4   cup lightly packed fresh basil 
leaves, torn into small pieces
   Pinch of sugar, only if needed1. Empty a can of tomatoes with their juice into a food processor; pulse until 
coarsely chopped. Transfer to a bowl and repeat with the remaining two cans 
of tomatoes (or empty all the tomatoes into a large bowl and break them up 
with your hands).
2. Heat the oil in a large (at least 4-quart) saucepa n or Dutch oven over medium-
low heat. Add the garlic or onion. Cook, stirring often, until the garlic or onion 
is golden and softened, 5 to 10 minutes for garlic (don’t let it burn); about 
20 minutes for onion. Stir in the red pepper flakes , let them heat for 15 seconds 
to release their flavor, and then pour in the tomatoes with their juices. Bring to 
a boil over medium high, stirring frequently, then reduce the heat to maintain a 
simmer. Add the salt and basil and simmer, stirring occasionally, until the 
sauce is full-flavored and has reduced to a thick, saucy consistency, 20 to 
40 minutes (some brands of tomatoes take longer to cook down). Pools of 
orange may appear on the surface, which means the sauce is done. Add the 
pinch of sugar only if the sauce lacks the sweetness of ripe, fresh tomatoes.
PER CUP: 90 CALORIES  |  3G PROTEIN  |  13G CARB  |   4.5G TOT AL FA T  |  0.5G SA T FA T  |   
3G MONO FA T  |  0.5G POL Y FA T  |  0MG CHOL  |  1,13 0MG SODIUM  |  3G FIBERpan-seared steak pizzaiola
S E R V E S  4
 2  rib-eye steaks (about 12 oz. 
each and 1 inch thick), 
trimmed of excess fat 
   Salt and freshly ground black 
pepper 
 2  Tbs. unsalted butter; more as 
needed
 1  Tbs. olive oil; more as needed
 2  large onions, halved and thinly 
sliced 
 1/2   cup dry red wine
 2  cups Marinara Sauce (recipe 
below)
 1  to 2 Tbs. chopped fresh flat-
leaf parsley
174  M A I N  C O U R S E S