PASTA  123
basic cream sauce
M A K e S  A B O U T  3  C U P S
 3   oz. (6 Tbs.) unsalted butter
 6   Tbs. unbleached all-purpose 
flour
 31/2   cups whole milk, heated
   Kosher salt and freshly ground 
black pepper
   Pinch of freshly grated nutmegA good, rich cream sauce is the secret to a great lasagne. Make it once the 
other components are ready, since it requires you to whisk it frequently and 
should be used as soon as it’s done.
In a 2- to 3-quart saucepan, melt the butter over medium-low heat. Add the 
flour and cook, whisking constantly for 2 to 3 minutes. Don’t let the mix-
ture brown. Slowly whisk in the hot milk and bring just to a simmer, whisking 
frequently. Reduce the heat to low and cook, whisking often, until the sauce 
has thickened to a creamy, gravy-like consistency and no longer tastes of raw 
flour, 10 to 12 minutes. Remove from the heat and whisk in 1 tsp. salt, ¼ tsp. 
pepper, and the nutmeg. If not using right away, transfer to a bowl and press a 
piece of plastic wrap directly on the surface of the sauce to keep a skin from 
forming. Plan to use the sauce within 30 minutes because it thickens if it’s left 
to sit for too long. If that should happen, add a little warm milk and whisk well 
to thin it.spaghetti and meatballs
M A K e S  1 2  L A r G e  M e AT B A L L S ; 
S e r v e S  4  T O  6 
   Marinara Sauce  
(recipe on the facing page)
 1/2  lb. ground beef
 1/2  lb. ground pork 
 1/2  lb. ground veal
 1   clove garlic, minced, plus  
1 clove garlic, lightly smashed 
 2  large eggs, lightly beaten
 1  cup finely grated imported 
Locatelli romano or  
Parmigiano-reggiano (or half 
and half); more for serving
 11/2   cups plain dry breadcrumbs
 1  Tbs. chopped fresh flat-leaf 
parsley 
   Kosher salt and freshly ground 
black pepper
 1  cup olive oil or vegetable oil; 
more as needed
 1  lb. dried spaghetti
 1/4   cup chopped fresh basil If you can’t buy the ground 
meats individually, use 11/2 lb. 
meatloaf mix, which is often 
available in supermarkets.
1. Start making the marinara 
sauce. While it’s simmering, 
make the meatballs. 
2. Break up the ground meat 
into a large bowl. Sprinkle on 
the minced garlic, eggs, grated 
cheese, breadcrumbs, parsley, 
11/2 cups water, 1 Tbs. salt, and 1/2 tsp. pepper. Mix with your hands until every-
thing is nicely distributed, but don’t overmix. Shape into 12 meatballs by gently 
scooping up a handful of meat and rolling it into a nice even ball; each meatball 
should weigh about 4 oz. and be about 21/2 inches in diameter. 
3. Heat the olive oil and the lightly smashed garlic clove in a 10-inch nonstick 
skillet over medium heat. (If your skillet is larger than 10 inches, you’ll need to 
add more oil; there should be enough to come about halfway up the sides of 
the meatballs.) When the garlic is lightly browned, the oil should be hot enough 
to start frying. (Remove the garlic from the oil once it becomes fully browned.) 
Gently set 6 of the meatballs in the oil and fry until they’re lightly browned 
on the bottom half, 5 to 6 minutes. Carefully turn them over using a slotted 
spatula and brown the other side. Drain the meatballs on a few paper towels 
to soak up excess oil. Fry the remaining 6 meatballs the same way.
4. When the marinara has finished its initial simmer and you’ve seasoned it, 
add the meatballs to the simmering sauce and cover the pot. Simmer them 
together for 30 minutes to let the sauce permeate the meatballs and the 
meat flavor infuse the sauce. 
5. Meanwhile, bring a large pot of salted water to a boil. When the meatballs 
and sauce have been simmering for about 20 minutes, add the spaghetti to 
the boiling water and boil until it’s just about al dente. 
6. When the spaghetti is done, drain it and return it to the pot it was cooked in. 
Add the chopped basil and a couple of ladlefuls of the marinara sauce to the 
spaghetti. Put the pot over high heat and, with a wooden spoon or tongs, con-
stantly toss the pasta until each piece is coated with sauce, about 1 minute. 
Transfer to serving bowls and ladle more sauce over the spaghetti, along with 
2 or 3 meatballs (or transfer the meatballs to a serving platter and set it on the 
table). Serve with grated cheese and Garlic-Parmesan Bread (recipe on the 
facing page). —Frank Pellegrino
PER SERVING: 1,060 CALORIES  |  47G PROTEIN  |  99G CARB  |  51G TOT AL FA T  |  14G SA T FA T  |  
29G MONO FA T  |  5G POL Y FA T  |  170MG CHOL  |  4,2 60MG SODIUM  |  12G FIBER
124  P A S TADon’t press the ground meat too hard; 
roll it lightly so the large meatballs just 
hold together.
forming meatballsThe easy garlic and cheese 
mixture adds the right amount of 
flavor to artisan breads.
1. Heat the oven to 425°F . 
2. In a food processor or a large 
bowl, combine the butter, Parmi-
giano, oil, garlic, lemon zest,  
¼ tsp. salt, and 1 / 8 tsp. pepper. 
Pulse a few times to blend but 
don’t overprocess or the butter 
might separate. If mixing by hand, 
mash together with a fork or a 
wooden spoon. 
3. Slice the bread 1 inch thick, cutting almost but not all the way through the 
bottom crust, so it’s easy to pull apart. Spread a light, even coating of the 
butter mixture on both sides of each slice of bread. (You may not need all the 
butter; refrigerate any leftover for up to a week or freeze for up to 3 months.) 
Wrap the bread in foil and put the loaf on a baking sheet to catch any butter 
that runs out. Heat in the oven for about 15 minutes, then open the top of the 
foil to slightly crisp the top of the loaf, about 5 minutes more. Serve hot.  
—Martha Holmberg
PER SERVING: 370 CALORIES  |  8G PROTEIN  |  38G CAR B  |  21G TOT AL FA T  |  11G SA T FA T  |   
6G MONO FA T  |  2G POL Y FA T  |  45MG CHOL  |  650MG  SODIUM  |  2G FIBER
garlic-parmesan bread 
S e r v e S  6
 8  Tbs. (1/2 cup) salted butter, 
softened 
 1/4   cup lightly packed finely 
grated Parmigiano-reggiano 
 1  Tbs. extra-virgin olive oil 
 2  large cloves garlic, very finely 
minced or grated on a rasp-
style grater 
 1  tsp. finely grated lemon zest
   Kosher salt and freshly ground 
black pepper 
 1  medium loaf artisan-style 
bread with a tight crumb marinara sauce 
M A K e S  A B O U T  7  C U P S 
 3   28-oz. cans Italian plum 
tomatoes, whole or crushed 
(preferably San Marzano)
 1/2  cup olive oil 
 6   cloves garlic, lightly smashed 
 1   Tbs. kosher salt; more as 
needed
 1/4  cup chopped fresh basil
 1   tsp. freshly ground black  
pepper
 1/4  tsp. dried oregano1. If you’re using whole tomatoes, put them in a large bowl and crush them with 
your hands. Discard any cores.
2. In a 7-quart or larger pot, heat the oil over medium heat. Add the garlic and 
sauté until lightly golden brown, about 2 minutes. Add the tomatoes and salt. 
Bring to a boil, reduce the heat, and simmer, stirri ng occasionally, for 45 minutes 
to 1 hour; the sauce will reduce and thicken slightly but shouldn’t get too thick. 
Stir in the basil, pepper, and oregano. T aste and add more salt as needed. Pro-
ceed with the Spaghetti and Meatballs recipe (on the facing page), or let cool 
and refrigerate for up to 4 days.
P A S TA   125