PASTA  109For cooks, garlic is indispensable. But with its 
piquant flavor and strong aroma, it can also 
dominate a dish. For a sweeter, more subtly 
aromatic and delicately flavored alternative, look 
to green garlic. With long, tender stalks and just 
the beginnings of a bulb, this scallion look-alike is 
simply young garlic that’s been harvested before 
the bulb is mature. Use the entire plant as you 
would regular garlic to add fresh, herbal garlic 
notes to your favorite soups, salads, and sautés. 
From March through May, it offers the perfect 
break from its older brother’s bite.  
When garlic ( Allium sativum ) is harvested 
before its bulb develops individual cloves, it’s 
called green garlic, spring garlic, or baby garlic. 
Farmers have always picked green garlic as a way 
to thin the crop, but now it’s grown increasingly 
popular as its own crop. Green garlic’s slender 
stalks are about a foot long and lead to a small white bulb that is sometimes 
streaked with purple; the bulb itself resembles that of a spring onion or fat 
scallion. 
How to buy and store 
Green garlic should have a pleasant garlic aroma; lush, bright green leaves; and a 
white or purple-hued bulb end. Avoid plants with dried ends or soggy leaves, as 
well as larger, pungent-smelling plants (they’re often tough). When storing, treat 
green garlic as you would an herb: Wrap it in a damp paper towel, put it in a sealed 
plastic bag, and refrigerate it for up to 5 days.
How to use
Green garlic can be cooked or eaten raw. Use it in any dish that benefits from a hit 
of garlic, or use it as a substitute for scallions. Trim it as you would a leek: Remove 
the root end of the bulb and any tough dark green leaves. (Reserve discarded 
leaves for stews and sauces; they can be tossed in whole, like a bay leaf, for 
flavor.) 
Add thinly sliced and lightly sautéed green garlic to mashed potatoes, 
gratins, stir-fries, scrambled eggs and omelets, and pasta dishes. Use it as an 
aromatic base for soup, steamed mussels and clams, or shrimp sautés. Try it in 
a vinaigrette or blend it into aïoli. For a delicious take on pesto, purée green garlic 
with fresh basil, pine nuts, and Parmigiano-Reggiano. 
Green garlic pairs beautifully with other spring ingredients; combine it with 
asparagus and peas in a risotto, or toss it into a salad of fresh greens.  
—Evan BarbourAll about Green Garlic
cavatappi with artichokes and 
three cheeses
S e r v e S  4
  Kosher salt
 1  lemon 
 1  Tbs. unsalted butter
 1  Tbs. olive oil
 1/2   cup chopped shallot
 1    9-oz. package frozen artichoke 
hearts, cut into 1/4-inch slices 
while frozen
 1/4   tsp. crushed red pepper flakes
   Coarsely ground black pepper
 1 / 3   cup thinly sliced fresh chives
 2  Tbs. thinly sliced fresh mint 
leaves
 12  oz. cavatappi 
 1/2   cup mascarpone (4 oz.)
 1/2   cup mild goat cheese (3 oz.)
 1/2   cup finely grated pecorino 
romano; more for servingCavatappi resemble elongated 
elbow macaroni and are the 
perfect shape for this rich and 
creamy dish—the herbs, cheeses, 
and sliced artichoke hearts cling 
to the spirals. By using a combi-
nation of frozen artichoke hearts 
and fresh chives and mint, you 
can produce a fast and flavorful 
vegetarian meal in no time. 
1. Bring a large pot of well-salted water to a boil ov er high heat. From the lemon, 
grate 11/2 tsp. of zest and squeeze 1 Tbs. of juice; set aside. Heat the butter and 
oil in a 12-inch skillet over medium heat until the butter has melted. Add the 
shallot and cook until just softened, about 3 minutes. Increase the heat to high 
and add the frozen artichokes, red pepper flakes, 1/2 tsp. salt, and ¼ tsp. pep-
per. Cook until the artichokes are golden brown, 3 to 4 minutes. Remove from 
the heat and stir in 3 Tbs. of the chives, the mint, and the lemon zest.
2. Meanwhile, cook the cavatappi according to package directions until al dente. 
Drain, reserving 1/2 cup of the water. Return the pasta to the pot and stir in the 
mascarpone, goat cheese, pecorino, lemon juice, and  ¼ cup of the water until 
smooth. Gently stir in the artichoke mixture and add more water if necessary 
to moisten the pasta. Season to taste with salt and pepper. Serve sprinkled 
with the remaining chives and additional cheese.  —Samantha Seneviratne
PER SERVING: 650 CALORIES  |  22G PROTEIN  |  74G CA RB  |  30G TOT AL FA T  |  15G SA T FA T  |   
8G MONO FA T  |  1.5G POL Y FA T  |  65MG CHOL  |  730M G SODIUM  |  8G FIBER
110  P A S TAShun pregrated cheese and grab a grater. Not only does this allow 
you to tailor the shred to suit the dish, but it also means the flavor is 
deeper and more pronounced.spaghettini with roasted fennel and mozzarella
S e r v e S  2
 2  medium bulbs fennel, washed 
and trimmed
 1  head garlic, cloves peeled and, 
if large, halved
 1  Tbs. fennel seeds, chopped
 1/4   cup extra-virgin olive oil
 4  canned plum tomatoes, 
chopped (2 / 3 cup)
 1/4  tsp. crushed red pepper flakes
   Salt and freshly ground black 
pepper 
 1/2  lb. spaghettini
 1  cup loosely packed fresh basil 
leaves
 3  oz. fresh mozzarella, cut into 
cubes (about 1/2 cup) 
 1 / 3  cup freshly grated Parmesan;  
  more for serving Fennel seeds and fresh basil echo the subtle licorice flavor of the fresh fennel. 
1. Heat the oven to 450°F . Cut the fennel bulbs into quarters through their 
cores. With a chef’s knife, cut out each core, set the wedges cut side down, 
and cut them into 1 / 8-inch slices. In a shallow ovenproof dish or baking pan, 
toss the fennel with the garlic, fennel seeds, half of the olive oil, the tomatoes, 
pepper flakes, and salt and pepper to taste. Spread the mixture evenly in the 
bottom of the pan. Roast without stirring until the fennel is limp and somewhat 
browned, 35 to 45 minutes.
2. When the fennel is just cooked, cook the spaghettini until al dente, drain it, 
and return it to its pot. Add the roasted mixture to the pot and toss. Add the 
remaining olive oil. T ear the basil into pieces and add it to the pot. Just before 
serving, toss with the mozzarella and Parmesan. Serve immediately, with extra 
Parmesan on the table. —Micol Negrin
PER SERVING: 1,000 CALORIES  |  37G PROTEIN  |  121G  CARB  |  43G TOT AL FA T  |  11G SA T FA T  |  
25G MONO FA T  |  5G POL Y FA T  |  30MG CHOL  |  1,39 0MG SODIUM  |  16G FIBER
P A S TA   111spaghetti with grilled eggplant, 
tomato & onion
S e r v e S  4  T O  6
 1/4   cup extra-virgin olive oil; more 
for brushing
 6   Tbs. finely chopped fresh basil
 2   or 3 large cloves garlic, finely 
chopped
 1/4   cup crushed walnuts
 1  tsp. salt; more to taste
 1  medium eggplant (about 1 lb.), 
peeled and cut into 3 / 8-inch 
slices
 1  beefsteak tomato (about  
1 lb.), halved
 1  medium onion, peeled and cut 
into 3 or 4 thick slices
   Freshly ground black pepper
 1  lb. spaghetti
   Freshly grated Parmesan 
(optional)Cooking times will be on the longer 
side if you’re using a gas grill. 
Prepare a medium-hot char- 
coal fire or heat a gas grill for  
20 minutes on high. In a bowl, mix 
together the olive oil, basil, garlic, 
walnuts, and 1 tsp. salt. Brush the 
eggplant, tomato, and onion with 
more olive oil, season with salt 
and pepper, and put them on the 
grill. Grill the tomato, turning only once, until the skin is blistering and the flesh 
looks mushy and cooked, 15 to 25 minutes. Grill the onion until soft and black-
ened on both sides, about 15 minutes. Grill the eggplant until golden brown 
and tender, 10 to 25 minutes. Coarsely chop the eggplant, tomato, and onion; 
put them in a large bowl along with their juices. Meanwhile, bring a large pot of 
well-salted water to a vigorous boil and add the spaghetti. Cook until al dente; 
drain well. T oss the pasta with the vegetables and the basil mixture. Sprinkle 
with pepper; toss again and serve immediately, with freshly grated Parmesan 
cheese, if you like. —Clifford Wright
PER SERVING: 460 CALORIES  |  12G PROTEIN  |  72G CA RB  |  14G TOT AL FA T  |  2G SA T FA T  |   
8G MONO FA T  |  3G POL Y FA T  |  0MG CHOL  |  610MG SODIUM  |  7G FIBER
