DE S S E R T S   225grilled fresh figs with  
ice cream and honey
S E RV E S  6 T O  8
 12  to 16 fresh Black Mission  
figs, stemmed and halved 
lengthwise 
 1  Tbs. canola oil
 1  to 2 Tbs. aged balsamic  
vinegar
 2  Tbs. sugar
 11/2   tsp. chopped fresh thyme 
 11/2  to 2 pints vanilla ice cream
  About 1/2 cup honey
 5  large fresh mint leaves, thinly 
sliced (optional)Grill these figs as dinner is 
winding down—they take only a 
couple of minutes to prepare.
1. Heat a gas grill to medium low 
or prepare a low charcoal fire. Set 
the figs cut side down on a baking 
sheet and brush the rounded 
side with the oil. Flip and brush 
the cut sides of the figs with the 
balsamic vinegar. In a small bowl, 
toss the sugar with the thyme, then sprinkle over the figs. Set the figs on the 
grill, cut side facing up. Cover the grill and cook until the sugary tops start to 
bubble and brown and the bottoms of the figs get light grill marks (without 
burning), 5 to 8 minutes.
2. Serve immediately over scoops of ice cream, drizzled with the honey, and 
sprinkled with the mint, if using. —T ony Rosenfeld
PER SERVING: 230 CALORIES  |  2G PROTEIN  |  41G CAR B  |  7G TOT AL FA T  |  3.5G SA T FA T  |   
2.5G MONO FA T  |  1G POL Y FA T  |  20MG CHOL  |  40M G SODIUM  |  1G FIBER
strawberry-balsamic granita
M A K E S  A B O U T  6  C U P S  S C R A P E D 
G R A N I TA ;  S E R V E S  1 2
 10   oz. ripe strawberries (about  
1 pint), rinsed and cored
 1/2   cup plus 11/2 Tbs. sugar
 11/2   Tbs. high-quality balsamic 
vinegarThe balsamic vinegar supplies a depth of flavor and sweetness to this granita.
Cut each berry into quarters; you should have about 2 cups lightly packed 
fruit. In a food processor, combine the strawberries and sugar and process 
until smooth, about 1 minute. Transfer the purée to a medium bowl. Add 
the vinegar and 11/2 cups water and stir well to combine. Follow the freezing 
method below. —Nicole Plue
PER SERVING: 50 CALORIES  |  0G PROTEIN  |  12G CARB   |  0G TOT AL FA T  |  0G SA T FA T  |   
0G MONO FA T  |  0G POL Y FA T  |  0MG CHOL  |  0MG SO DIUM  |  0G FIBER
the freezing process step-by-step
1. Pour the mixture into a 9-inch-square 
shallow baking pan.
2. Put the pan in the freezer and stir every 
30 minutes with a large dinner fork, being 
sure to scrape the ice crystals off the sides 
and into the middle of the pan, until the 
mixture is too frozen to stir, about 3 hours 
depending on how cold your freezer is (some 
granitas can freeze in as little as 1 hour).3. Cover the pan with plastic and freeze 
overnight. When ready to serve, place a fork 
at the top of the dish and pull it toward you 
in rows, moving from left to right and rotating 
the pan. Scrape up the shaved ice and fill 
chilled glasses.226  DE S S E R T Slemon sabayon with blueberry 
sauce and shortbread cookies
S E RV E S  8
FOR  THE  SABAYON
 4  large eggs
 4  lar ge yolks
 3/4   cup granulated sugar
   Juice from 4 lemons  
(about 1 cup)
 4   oz. (8 Tbs.) room-temperature 
butter, cut into small pieces 
 1/2   cup heavy cream, whipped to 
soft peaks
FOR THE BLUEBERRY SAUCE
 21/2   cups fresh blueberries (or 
frozen, thawed and drained)
 3/4   cup granulated sugar
 2   tsp. freshly squeezed lemon 
juice
FOR THE COOKIES
 9   oz. (2 cups) unbleached  
all-purpose flour
 21/4   oz. (1/2 cup) confectioners’ 
sugar
 1/4  tsp. salt
 8   oz. (16 Tbs.) cold unsalted  
butter, cut into small pieces
FOR ASSEMBLING
   Confectioners’ sugar,  
for dusting
   Fresh mint sprigs, for garnish 
(optional)A sabayon is a cousin of the 
light, egg-based Italian dessert 
zabaglione .
MAKE THE SABAYON
1. Pour the egg and yolks into a 
stainless-steel bowl. Whisk in the 
sugar, a little at a time, then con-
tinue whisking until the mixture 
is lighter in color and air has been 
incorporated. Whisk in the lemon juice. 
2. Bring some water to a simmer in a saucepan. Set the bowl over the water, 
but make sure it doesn’t touch the water. T o ensure a smooth, light texture, 
whisk continuously throughout the cooking process.
3. Whisk until the sabayon becomes frothy and thick, scraping the sides and 
bottom of the bowl. Remove the sabayon from the heat just as ribbons start 
to trail off the whisk. Continue to whisk for another minute to help set the 
sabayon.
4. Gently whisk in the butter a little at a time until it’s completely incorporated. 
If the butter melts immediately, stop adding it and whisk the sabayon a little 
longer to cool it to tepid.
5. Have ready a big bowl of ice. Set the bowl of warm sabayon on the ice. Whisk 
the sabayon over the ice periodically for about 10 minutes. (Quick cooling 
keeps bacteria at bay and allows you to add the whipped cream with no dan-
ger of curdling the cream.)
6. Gently fold the whipped cream into the chilled sabayon with a rubber 
spatula. Refrigerate at for least 11/2 hours before serving. The chilled sabayon 
can hold for up to 24 hours, but it’s best served the same day.
MAKE THE BLUEBERRY SAUCE
Combine 1 cup of the blueberries with 1 Tbs. water, the sugar, and the lemon 
juice in small saucepan. Cook over medium-high heat, stirring occasionally, 
until the sugar has dissolved and mixture is boiling, about 4 minutes. Remove 
from the heat. Stir in the remaining blueberries. Refrigerate for 3 to 24 hours. 
Serve well chilled.
MAKE THE COOKIES
1. Heat the oven to 350°F . Line 2 baking sheets with foil or parchment. 
2. In an electric mixer, combine the flour, sugar, and salt; mix for 30 seconds 
to blend. Add the cold butter and blend on a low speed until the dough just 
comes together, about 2 minutes. Roll out the dough about 1 / 8 inch thick on a 
lightly floured surface. (If the dough is too sticky, refrigerate it for 30 minutes 
before continuing.) Stamp out 8 cookies with a 3 1/2-inch round cookie cutter; 
arrange the rounds on a baking sheet 1 1/2 inches apart. (Chill the dough scraps 
until ready to use for a second batch.) 
3. Bake the first batch of cookies until the edges are lightly browned, 12 to 
14 minutes. Let the baking sheets sit on a wire rack for 3 minutes, and then 
