acini di pepe pasta with  
zucchini and peppers
SER V E S  6
 11/4   cups dried acini di pepe
 3  Tbs. olive oil
 1  medium carrot, cut into small 
dice
 1  small onion, cut into small dice
 2  cloves garlic, minced
 3/4   cup diced red or yellow bell 
peppers, or a mix
 1  medium zucchini, cut into 
small dice
 1/4   cup white wine; more as 
needed
 3  Tbs. chopped fresh flat-leaf 
parsley
 1  Tbs. chopped fresh oregano 
leaves (optional)
 1/4   cup grated Romano cheese
   Salt and freshly ground black 
pepper If you can’t find the tiny, round acini di pepe, you can use tubettini or rice-
shaped orzo. 
1. Boil the pasta. It should be tender in about 8 min. When done, drain it and 
rinse briefly under cool water. Return it to the pot, toss with 1 Tbs. olive oil, and 
set aside. You can do this up to a day ahead; if so, cover and refrigerate.
2. Heat a large frying pan over medium-high heat. Pour in the remaining oil, let 
it get hot, and then add the carrot and onion. Sauté over medium heat until 
the onion is soft and translucent, about 8 min. Turn the heat to high. Add the 
garlic, peppers, and zucchini and sauté for another 5 min. Don’t let the garlic 
burn. The zucchini and peppers should be soft but not mushy. Deglaze with 
the wine.
3. Add the pasta and sauté over high heat, jerking the pan frequently so the 
ingredients mix well. If the pasta sticks, add a little more wine. When the pasta 
is heated through, remove the pan from the heat. Gently stir in the parsley, 
oregano, and Romano. Season with salt and pepper. —Mark Bliss
S I D E S   217roasted broccoli with  
lemon and pecorino
SER V E S  4
 11/2   lb. broccoli
 1/4   cup plus 2 Tbs. extra-virgin 
olive oil
 1  tsp. kosher salt 
 2  Tbs. freshly squeezed lemon 
juice; more to taste 
 1 / 3   cup freshly grated pecorino 
romanoThe lemon brightens the flavor 
of the roasted broccoli in this 
easy side dish. For extra lemon 
zing, grate a bit of zest before 
squeezing the lemon juice and 
add it at the end.
1. Position a rack in the center
of the oven and heat the oven 
to 450°F .
2. T ear off any broccoli leaves and trim the bottoms of the stems. Cut the 
florets just above where they join the large stem, and then cut each floret 
through its stem (but not the buds) so that each piece is about 1/4 inch thick 
at the stem end. Using a vegetable peeler or paring knife, peel the tough outer 
skin from the large stem, removing as little flesh as possible. Cut the stem into 
baton-shaped pieces about 1/4 inch wide and 2 inches long.  
3. Put the florets and stem pieces on a rimmed baking sheet, drizzle with the 
olive oil, sprinkle with the salt, and toss well to combine. Spread the broccoli 
into an even layer and roast until tender and golden brown, 15 to 20 minutes. 
Transfer the broccoli to a serving platter; toss with the lemon juice to taste 
and the grated pecorino. —T asha DeSerio
PER SERVING: 280 CALORIES  |  6G PROTEIN  |  12G CAR B  |  24G TOT AL FA T  |  4.5G SA T FA T  |   
16G MONO FA T  |  2G POL Y FA T  |  5MG CHOL  |  460MG  SODIUM  |  4G FIBER
218  S I D E Sgetting broccoli ready for cooking
Snap off any leaves and cut the florets just 
above where they join the main stem. Use 
a vegetable peeler to remove the tough 
outer layer of the stem. (A paring knife 
works as well, but be careful not to remove 
too much flesh.)
You’ll end up with intact florets, some of 
which will have a flatter surface area on 
the stems; this helps them brown easier. 
Cut the large broccoli stem into baton-
shaped pieces.Cut the florets into the size you need, but 
don’t cut through the buds—instead, use 
a small knife to cut lengthwise through the 
stem. This method lets the florets sepa-
rate easily but keeps the buds intact. You 
get fewer “bud crumbs” (which can burn 
easily) in the pan, and the florets will retain 
their tree-like form.
cauliflower sformato
SER V E S  6 TO 8
 1   small cauliflower (about 2 lb.)
 2   Tbs. olive oil; more for the 
gratin dish
  Kosher salt
 13/4   oz. freshly grated Parmigiano-
Reggiano (2 / 3 cup grated on the 
small holes of a box grater)
 33/4  cups whole milk
 4   oz. (1/2 cup) unsalted butter
 21/4   oz. (1/2 cup) unbleached  
all-purpose flour
 3  large eggs
 2  large egg yolks
 2  Tbs. extra-virgin olive oil
   Freshly ground black pepperA sformato is an Italian version of a soufflé. If you like, you can bake the 
cauliflower mixture in individual ramekins or gratin dishes; just reduce the 
baking time. 
1. Position a rack in the center of the oven and heat the oven to 375°F .
2. Core the cauliflower and separate it into florets. Cut the florets into 1/4-inch-
thick slices. Put the cauliflower on a rimmed baking sheet and toss with the 
olive oil. Spread in an even layer, season with 1/2 tsp. salt, and roast until tender, 
30 to 35 minutes. Let cool. Raise the oven temperature to 400°F . Brush an 
8x10-inch (2-quart) gratin dish with olive oil and evenly coat with about half of 
the Parmigiano. Set aside.
3. Heat the milk in a 2-quart saucepan over medium heat until just about 
to boil. 
4. Meanwhile, melt the butter in a 4-quart saucepan over medium-low heat. 
Whisk in the flour and cook, whisking constantly, until the mixture turns light 
golden, 2 to 4 minutes. Slowly add the hot milk, whisking constantly until very 
smooth. Bring just to a boil and reduce the heat to maintain a simmer. Add 
1 tsp. salt and cook, stirring frequently, for 10 minutes to develop the flavor. 
Transfer to a large bowl.
5. In a small bowl, whisk the eggs, yolks, and extra-virgin olive oil. Roughly 
chop 1/2 cup of the cauliflower, and purée the rest in a food processor. Stir 
the chopped cauliflower, cauliflower purée, egg mixture, and the remaining 
Parmigiano into the sauce. Season to taste with salt and pepper. Pour the 
mixture into the prepared gratin dish and bake until the sformato is just set 
and browned around the edges, about 30 minutes. It should jiggle just a little 
when you remove it from the oven. Let rest for 10 to 15 minutes before serving. 
—T asha DeSerio
PER SERVING: 330 CALORIES  |  10G PROTEIN  |  16G CA RB  |  26G TOT AL FA T  |  12G SA T FA T  |   
10G MONO FA T  |  2G POL Y FA T  |  175MG CHOL  |  320 MG SODIUM  |  2G FIBER
S I D E S   219