orecchiette with roasted cauliﬂ  ower, 
arugula & prosciutto
S e r v e S  4
  Kosher salt 
 1/2      medium head cauliflower, 
cored and cut into 3/4   -inch 
florets (31/2    cups)
 1  pint grape tomatoes
 3  Tbs. extra-virgin olive oil
   Freshly ground black pepper 
 9  large fresh sage leaves
 4  large cloves garlic, peeled
 6  thin slices prosciutto 
(about 4 oz.)
 12  oz. dried orecchiette
 5  oz. baby arugula (5 lightly 
packed cups)
 3/4      cup grated Parmigiano-
reggianoBoil the pasta until just al dente. A firm bite will complement the other ingredi-
ents’ flavors and textures.
1. Position a rack in the lower third of the oven and heat the oven to 425°F . 
Bring a large pot of well-salted water to a boil.
2. T oss the cauliflower, tomatoes, oil, 3/4    tsp. salt, and 1/2    tsp. pepper on a 
rimmed baking sheet; spread in a single layer. Roast, stirring once or twice, 
until the cauliflower begins to turn golden and tender, about 15 minutes.
3. Meanwhile, pulse the sage and garlic in a food processor until minced. Add 
the prosciutto and pulse until coarsely chopped. Once the cauliflower is 
golden, toss the herb mixture into the vegetables and continue to roast until 
fragrant and the cauliflower is golden brown, 5 to 7 minutes.
4. Cook the orecchiette until al dente, 9 to 10 minutes. Reserve 1 cup pasta-
cooking water. Drain the pasta and return it to the pot. Stir in the roasted
cauliflower mixture, arugula, cheese, and enough pasta water to moisten. 
Season to taste with salt and pepper. —Pam Anderson
PER SERVING: 530 CALORIES  |  23G PROTEIN  |  73G CAR B  |  16G TOT AL FA T  |  3.5G SA T FA T  |  
8G MONO FA T  |  2G POL Y FA T  |  20MG CHOL  |  1,100 MG SODIUM  |  7G FIBER
P A S TA   103
farfalle in a broth of wild mushrooms and  
browned shallots
S e r v e S  4
 6  oz. fresh shiitake mushrooms
 1/4  lb. fresh oyster mushrooms
 1/4   cup extra-virgin olive oil
   Kosher salt and freshly ground 
black pepper
 3/4   lb. dried farfalle
 4   shallots (about 3 oz. total), 
sliced crosswise into 1/4- to 
1 / 8-inch-thick rings 
 1/4  cup dry sherry
 3  cups lower-salt canned 
chicken broth 
 2  tsp. fresh thyme leaves, 
chopped
 1/4   tsp. Tabasco ® sauce; more 
to taste
 1/4   cup grated Parmigiano-
reggianoServe with a glass of Pinot Noir. These light red wines are bright and earthy, 
which allows them to work well with this dish.
1. Put a large pot of salted water on to boil. 
2. Stem the shiitake and oyster mushrooms and thinly slice the caps. Heat 
2 Tbs. of the oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat for 1 minute. Add the 
sliced mushrooms, season with salt and pepper, and cook, tossing occasion-
ally, until soft, 2 to 3 minutes. Transfer to a plate. 
3. Put the pasta in the water.
4. Add the remaining 2 Tbs. oil and the shallots to the skillet. Season with salt 
and cook for 2 minutes, stirring occasionally. Reduce the heat to medium low 
and cook until the shallots brown and soften, 2 to 4 minutes (don’t let them 
burn). Raise the heat to high, add the sherry, and cook, scraping the bottom 
of the pan, until the sherry is almost completely boiled off, about 30 seconds. 
Add the chicken broth. After 2 minutes, return the mushrooms to the pan, 
reduce the heat to medium, and cook the broth another 2 minutes. Sprinkle in 
the thyme and T abasco and taste for salt and pepper. 
5. Finish cooking the farfalle until it’s just tender, about 11 minutes total. Drain 
and put back in the pasta pot. Pour the broth and mushrooms over the pasta 
and stir well. Serve immediately in bowls with a generous sprinkling of the 
Parmigiano. —T ony Rosenfeld
PER SERVING: 510 CALORIES  |  16G PROTEIN  |  69G CA RB  |  17G TOT AL FA T  |  3G SA T FA T  |   
11G MONO FA T  |  2G POL Y FA T  |  5MG CHOL  |  610MG  SODIUM  |  4G FIBERPASTA  105pasta with pumpkin,  
sausage & cavolo nero
S e r v e S  6
  Kosher salt
 1  lb. sweet Italian sausage, 
casings removed if using links
 1  Tbs. olive oil (optional)
 1  medium yellow onion, 
chopped
 3  cups 3/4-inch-diced peeled, 
seeded pumpkin
 1/4   cup dry white wine
 4  cloves garlic, minced
 1  tsp. dried marjoram
 1 1/2   cups lower-salt chicken broth
 10  oz. cavolo nero (also called 
Lacinato, black, or dinosaur 
kale), trimmed, ribs removed, 
and leaves cut into 1-inch 
pieces
 8  oz. dried campanelle
 1/2   cup grated Parmigiano-
reggiano; more for serving 
  Freshly ground black pepperThis hearty fall dish is a wonderful 
way to incorporate fresh pumpkin 
into a simple but thoroughly 
satisfying midweek meal.  
1. Bring a large pot of well-salted 
water to a boil over high heat.
2. In a heavy-duty 12-inch skillet 
over medium heat, cook the 
sausage, breaking it up into small 
pieces with a wooden spoon, until mostly browned, 6 to 8 minutes. Push the 
sausage toward the edge of the skillet and add the olive oil if the center of the 
pan is dry (this will depend on the amount of fat in the sausage). Add the onion 
and cook until golden and the sausage is well browned, about 8 minutes. Stir 
in the pumpkin, wine, garlic, and marjoram and cook until the wine evaporates, 
3 to 4 minutes. Add 3/4 cup of the broth and cook until the pumpkin is almost 
tender, about 8 minutes. Add the kale and the remaining 3/4 cup broth, cover, 
and cook until the pumpkin and kale are tender, about 4 minutes.
3. Meanwhile, cook the pasta in the boiling water according to package 
directions until al dente. Reserve 1/2 cup of the pasta water and then drain well. 
Add the pasta to the skillet with enough of the pasta water to coat the pasta 
and vegetables generously. Stir in the Parmigiano and season to taste with salt 
and pepper. Serve with additional Parmigiano.  —Jeanne Kelley
PER SERVING: 370 CALORIES  |  17G PROTEIN  |  42G CA RB  |  15G TOT AL FA T  |  5G SA T FA T  |   
7G MONO FA T  |  2G POL Y FA T  |  25MG CHOL  |  920MG  SODIUM  |  3G FIBER
Store kale unwashed in an unclosed plastic bag in the refrigerator’s 
crisper drawer, where it will keep for several days. If you need to store 
it longer, wrap the bundle in slightly damp paper towels before putting 
it in a plastic bag to help prolong its freshness. Try to use kale within 
5 to 7 days, because the longer you keep it, the stronger its flavor will 
become and the more its nutrients will fade.
