spinach and ricotta lasagne
SE R V E S  8  T O  1 0
FOR  TH E FILLIN G
 11/2   lb. whole milk ricotta (about  
3 cups)
 2  lb. fresh spinach, or two  
10-oz. packages frozen 
chopped spinach, thawed 
 2  oz. (1/4 cup) unsalted butter
 1/2  medium yellow onion, finely 
chopped (about 1/2 cup)
 3  medium cloves garlic, minced
 1/2  cup freshly grated 
Parmigiano-Reggiano
 2  large eggs, lightly beaten
 1  tsp. kosher salt 
 1/2  tsp. freshly ground black 
pepper
   Pinch of freshly grated nutmeg
TO ASSEMBLE
 1  recipe Quick Tomato Sauce 
(recipe p. 80) 
 3/4  lb. fresh lasagna noodles 
cooked as directed, or  
1 lb. dried, cooked according 
to package instructions
 1  recipe Basic Cream Sauce 
(recipe p. 80) 
 1  cup freshly grated 
Parmigiano-Reggiano
 1/2  oz. (1 Tbs.) unsalted butter, 
cut into small cubesYou can use fresh spinach, but it takes patience 
to trim and wash all the leaves. If you’re in a 
rush, chopped frozen spinach is an acceptable 
alternative. 
MAKE THE FILLING
1. Drain the ricotta in a fine-mesh sieve set over a 
bowl for 1 hour, or longer if the ricotta is very wet.
2. If using fresh spinach, stem and rinse it well; don’t dry the leaves. In a 12-inch 
skillet over medium-high heat, cook the spinach until wilted, 3 to 5 minutes. 
Drain well, squeeze out the excess moisture, and chop finely. If using thawed 
frozen spinach, squeeze it dry. 
3. Melt the butter in a 10- or 12-inch skillet over medium-low heat and add the 
onion. Cook until the onion is soft and translucent, 5 to 8 minutes. Add the 
garlic and cook for about 1 minute. Add the spinach and toss it for 1 or 2 min-
utes to coat it with the butter. Transfer the spinach mixture to a bowl and let it 
cool to room temperature. Add the ricotta, Parmigiano, eggs, salt, pepper, and 
nutmeg. Mix well. You should have about 41/2 cups.
ASSEMBLE THE LASAGNE
1. Position a rack in the center of the oven and heat the oven to 350°F . Choose 
a baking dish that’s about 9x12 inches and 3 inches  deep, or about 10x14 inches 
and 2 inches deep. Spread 1/2 cup of the tomato sauce in a sparse layer on the 
bottom of the baking dish. Cover the sauce with a slightly overlapping layer 
of cooked noodles, cutting them as needed to fill the gaps. With a spatula, 
spread one-third of the spinach and ricotta filling (about 11/2 cups) over the 
first layer of noodles. Then spread one-third of the remaining tomato sauce 
(about 1  1 / 3 cups) and one-third (1/2 cup) of the cream sauce over the filling. 
Sprinkle 1 / 3 cup of the Parmigiano on top. Add a new layer of noodles, overlap-
ping them slightly, and repeat the layers as instructed above, using all of the 
filling and ending with the Parmigiano, to make a total of three layers (you may 
not need all the pasta). Dot the top with the butter cubes. 
2. Put the baking dish on a baking sheet and bake until heated through and 
bubbling at the edges, 45 to 50 minutes. Remove from the oven and let rest 
for 10 to 15 minutes before serving. —Joyce Goldstein
PER SERVING: 470 CALORIES  |  20G PROTEIN  |  33G CA RB  |  28G TOT AL FA T  |  15G SA T FA T  |  
10G MONO FA T  |  1.5G POL Y FA T  |  165MG CHOL  |  9 20MG SODIUM  |  5G FIBER
78  P A S TAYou can bake your assembled lasagne right away or refrigerate it 
for later. It will keep for at least a day in the fridge. Alternatively, 
you can freeze it for up to 4 months (make sure you wrap the 
dish tightly with plastic). Thaw the lasagne in the fridge and bring 
it to room temperature before baking.Bake, Refrigerate, or FreezeYou can make the 
spinach and ricotta 
filling up to 4 hours 
ahead and store it in 
the refrigerator in an 
airtight container.Make AheadP A S TA   79AN  ICE BATH  HAL T S TH E COOK ING
Fresh pasta noodles can overcook easily, 
so have a bowl of ice water ready to cool 
them quickly.
how to cook 
fresh lasagna 
noodles
Prepare a large bowl of ice water. 
Slip the noodles, two or three at a 
time, into a big pot of boiling salted 
water and cook them until they’re 
tender and pale, 3 to 5 minutes 
(thinner noodles will cook more 
quickly). T o make sure they’re 
done, taste a small piece. If it’s still 
tough, it needs a little more cooking 
(fresh pasta is not cooked al dente 
like dried pasta). Carefully scoop 
the noodles out with a large wire 
skimmer and slide them into the ice 
water to stop the cooking. When 
they’re cool, layer them between 
clean dishtowels until you’re ready 
to assemble the lasagne.
TOW ELS P REVENT  STICKIN G Layering 
the noodles between towels dries them 
and keeps them separate. They’ll keep this 
way for up to 2 hours.
continued on p. 80 ➤quick tomato sauce
M A K ES  ABO U T  4 1/2  C U P S
 3  Tbs. extra-virgin olive oil
 1  medium carrot, finely 
chopped
 1  medium rib celery, finely 
chopped
 1/2  medium yellow onion, finely 
chopped
 1/4  cup chopped fresh flat-leaf 
parsley
 5  large fresh basil leaves, 
chopped 
   Kosher salt and freshly ground 
black pepper
 1/2 cup dry white wine
 1  28-oz. can plus one 14-oz. can 
plum tomatoes with juice, 
coarsely choppedIn a 3- or 4-quart. saucepan, heat the olive oil over medium heat. Add the car-
rot, celery, onion, parsley, basil, a generous pinch of salt, and a couple grinds of 
pepper. Cook until the vegetables are pale gold, 10 to 12 minutes. Add the wine 
and cook until it evaporates, about 5 minutes. Add the tomatoes with their 
juices, stir well, and simmer gently to blend the flavors and reduce the sauce 
to about 41/2 cups, 15 to 20 minutes (adjust the heat as necessary to maintain 
a gentle simmer). Season to taste with salt and pepper. If you want a smoother 
texture, pass the sauce through a food mill or purée in a food processor. 
80  P A S TAbasic cream sauce 
M A K E S  A B O U T  1 1/2  C U P S
 11/2  oz. (3 Tbs.) unsalted butter
 3  Tbs. unbleached all-purpose 
flour
 13/4  cups whole milk, heated
 1/2 tsp. kosher salt
 1 / 8  tsp. freshly ground black  
pepper
   Small pinch of freshly grated 
nutmegIn a 2-quart. saucepan, melt the butter over medi-
um-low heat. Add the flour and cook, whisking con-
stantly, for 2 to 3 minutes. Do not let the mixture 
brown. Slowly whisk in the hot milk and bring just to 
a simmer, whisking frequently. Reduce the heat to 
low and cook, whisking often, until the sauce has 
thickened to a creamy, gravy-like consistency and 
no longer tastes of raw flour, 6 to 8 minutes for a 
single batch, 10 to 12 minutes for a double batch. 
Remove from the heat and whisk in the salt, pepper, and nutmeg. If not using 
right away, transfer to a bowl and press a piece of plastic wrap directly on the 
surface of the sauce to keep a skin from forming. Plan to use the sauce within 
30 minutes, because it thickens if it’s left to sit for too long. If that should hap-
pen, add a little warm milk and whisk well to thin it.This sauce will keep  
in an airtight contain-
er in the refrigerator 
for about 5 days. You 
can freeze it for up to 
3 months.Make Aheadcontinued from p. 79