PO L E N TA  &  R I S O T T O   185gratin of polenta with greens
S E R V E S  4  A S  A  F I R S T  C O U R S E 
O R  S I D E  D I S H
 3  Tbs. olive oil; more for the 
polenta skillet
 1  cup medium-coarse or coarse 
cornmeal, preferably organic 
stone-ground
  Kosher salt
 1  clove garlic, peeled
 1/4   tsp. crushed red pepper flakes
   Freshly ground black pepper
 1  lb. mixed tender greens,  
such as arugula, spinach,  
watercress, young kale, plus 
a few sprigs of dill or fennel; 
thick stems cut away, and 
leaves chopped coarsely 
 1 / 3   cup grated Pecorino Romano This gratin can be a substantial side dish or a light supper. Flavoring olive oil 
with crushed red pepper flakes makes a “red” oil to add subtle heat.
PREPARE THE POLENTA
Heat the oven to 350°F . In an oiled 3-quart nonstick ovenproof skillet, stir the 
cornmeal, 4 cups water, and 1 tsp. salt. Bake uncovered for 40 minutes.
PREPARE THE GREENS
1. Meanwhile, in a very large skillet, heat 3 Tbs. of the olive oil over medium-
high heat. Add the garlic, red pepper flakes, and a pinch of black pepper; cook 
for 1 minute. Pour half the oil into a 11/2- or 2-quart baking and serving dish, 
reserving the garlic in the skillet, and then pour another 1 Tbs. of the oil into a 
cup to be drizzled over the final dish. Brush the seasoned oil all over the inside 
of the serving dish.
2. Add the chopped greens to the oil and garlic remaining in the skillet, cover, 
and cook over medium heat, stirring occasionally, until wilted and tender, 
about 10 minutes. Discard the garlic. Season the greens with salt and pepper. 
If necessary, uncover the greens and increase the heat at the end to evapo-
rate any liquid. (You’ll have 11/2 to 2 cups cooked greens.)
3. When the polenta has cooked for 40 minutes, quickly stir in the greens and 
half the cheese until combined. T aste and add salt if needed. Transfer to the 
oiled ovenproof serving dish, drizzle with the reserved oil, sprinkle with the 
remaining cheese, and bake until the cheese is melted, another 10 minutes. 
Serve hot. —Paula Wolfert
PER SERVING: 250 CALORIES  |  7G PROTEIN  |  27G CAR B  |  14G TOT AL FA T  |  3G SA T FA T  |   
8G MONO FA T  |  2G POL Y FA T  |  10MG CHOL  |  730MG SODIUM  |  4G FIBER
The Difference between Cornmeal  
and Polenta 
Although polenta is the name of the prepared dish, it’s made 
from cornmeal. There are two basic kinds of cornmeal, yellow 
and white, but more important than color is how it’s made. 
Cornmeal can range from a fine flour manufactured in a 
modern roller mill to a rough meal ground in a local gristmill. We 
prefer a coarse, artisanal, stone-ground cornmeal even though 
it takes a bit longer to cook: It has a more interesting, toothy 
texture. But if you can’t find that, it’s no reason not to make 
polenta. Just be sure your cornmeal contains only g round corn; 
avoid brands with additives or preservatives. Don’t use instant 
polenta: Although it cooks in about 5 minutes, it gives a more 
muted color and flavor and pastier consistency than the full, 
nutty, sweet flavor and creamy texture of regular cornmeal.186  PO L E N TA  &  R I S O T T Orisotto of sweet sausage and broccoli raab
S E R V E S  2
 3  cups homemade or lower-salt 
chicken broth; more if needed
 2  Tbs. unsalted butter
 1/2   cup arborio rice
 1/4   lb. sweet Italian sausage, 
skinned and crumbled
 1  small clove garlic, chopped
 1/2   cup dry white wine
  Kosher salt
   Pinch of cayenne
 1/4   lb. broccoli raab, boiled for  
5 minutes, drained, squeezed 
dry, and coarsely chopped
 2  Tbs. freshly grated Parmigiano- 
Reggiano
   Freshly ground black pepperThis is an easy, hearty dinner that cooks up fast. Use the mildest sausage you 
can find. 
1. In a small saucepan, bring the broth to a boil; lower the heat to a simmer. In a 
large, heavy-bottom saucepan over medium-high heat, melt the butter. Stir in 
the rice, toasting just until it starts to sizzle and pop, about 1 minute. It should 
not color. Add the sausage and garlic. Stir, breaking up the meat into small 
bits, until the sausage has lost its pink color, about 1 minute. Pour in the wine. 
Stir occasionally, cooking until the liquid is almost gone, about 2 minutes. Add 
just enough hot broth to cover the rice. Lower the heat to maintain a vigorous 
simmer; stir occasionally. When the liquid is almost gone, add just enough 
hot broth to cover the rice, along with a pinch of salt and cayenne. Check the 
risotto every 3 or 4 minutes, giving it an occasional stir to make sure it isn’t 
sticking to the bottom of the pan and adding just enough broth to cover the 
rice when the liquid has almost disappeared. After a couple of additions of 
broth, add the broccoli raab. 
2. Continue adding broth and checking until the rice is just al dente, about 
20 minutes from the first liquid addition. Bite into a grain; you should see a 
small white pin-dot in the center. T ake the risotto off the heat and stir vigor-
ously for a few seconds. Fold in the Parmigiano, pepper to taste, and a pinch 
of salt if needed. Stir in a few tablespoons of broth to loosen the risotto, if you 
like. Serve immediately. —Alan T ardi
PER SERVING: 470 CALORIES  |  17G PROTEIN  |  46G CA RB  |  22G TOT AL FA T  |  11G SA T FA T  |   
8G MONO FA T  |  2G POL Y FA T  |  60MG CHOL  |  1,160 MG SODIUM  |  2G FIBER
PO L E N TA  &  R I S O T T O   187Wha t Rice for Risotto?
While many have come to identify risotto with arborio, other 
varieties, such as carnaroli, baldo, and vialone nano, make 
excellent risotto as well. 
Compared to carnaroli and vialone nano, arborio and baldo 
have a higher starch content and tend to absorb less liquid, 
resulting in a stickier, more compact risotto. They’re also less 
forgiving, going from just right to overcooked in a heartbeat. 
Carnaroli and, even more so, vialone nano contain less starch 
and absorb lots of liquid, producing a creamier, fluid risotto. 
Vialone nano is especially suited to seafood risottos, which are 
traditionally looser. 
Some supermarkets carry carnaroli in addition to arborio, but 
the other two are more of a gourmet shop product. 
A trick for making risotto ahead
A fresh batch of risotto takes at least 30 minutes to prepare. 
And if you try to make risotto ahead completely and then reheat 
it, it’ll be overcooked and mushy. Instead, you can cook it until 
it’s about halfway done—the rice should still be rather firm 
inside—and then spread it out on a baking sheet 
to stop cooking and cool. Cover the rice and 
set it aside at room temperature for up to 
2 hours. When you’re ready to serve the 
risotto, return it to the pot and resume 
adding hot liquid until it’s perfectly 
al dente, a few minutes later.
