98  PASTAravioli pasta dough
M A K e S  1  L B .  D O U G H
 18  oz. (4 cups) unbleached all-
purpose flour or “00” flour, 
or a combination
 4  large eggs
 1  tsp. extra-virgin olive oil
 1/2 tsp. kosher salt 
how to fill and shape ravioli
Cut the sheet in half crosswise and trim the 
sides to make two rectangles, one slightly 
larger than the other. On the smaller sheet, 
mound 1 to 2 tsp. of filling, leaving 1/2 to 
3/4 inch between each mound. (For smaller 
ravioli, use less filling in each mound and 
space them more closely; for larger ravioli, 
use more.) Brush a little beaten egg yolk on 
the dough around each mound of filling.Lay the second sheet of dough on top, 
draping it gently over the mounds without 
stretching it. Starting at one edge, gently 
press around the filling to push out any air 
pockets and seal the sheets.
Cut the pasta in between the mounds to 
form individual squares or circles with a 
scalloped pastry wheel or a ravioli stamp 
(if you don’t have either of these, try a bis-
cuit cutter or a paring knife). Press on the 
mounds a bit to slightly flatten them and on 
the edges to confirm the seal. Roll out, fill, 
and cut any remaining dough the same way. continued from p. 96
Italians use a fine flour called “00” in pasta dough, but all-purpose works, too. 
You won’t use all 4 cups of flour, but the extra helps keep the eggs in the well. 
1. Dump the flour in a pile on a work surface. Make a deep, wide well in the 
center and pour in the eggs, oil, and salt. Mix the eggs with a fork, staying in the 
center and being careful that the eggs don’t breach the wall. Little by little, mix 
in flour from the sides until the dough starts to move as a unit and is too stiff 
to mix with a fork. Now mix with your hand, incorporating flour to stiffen the 
dough. When it doesn’t easily absorb more flour (one signal is floury, dried bits 
of dough flaking off the mass), set the dough aside; scrape up the remaining 
flour and pass it through a sieve to sift out dried-up bits. Discard the bits and 
keep the sifted flour on the work surface to use during kneading if necessary. 
2. Wash and dry your hands. Knead the dough on the lightly floured surface 
until it’s a smooth, homogenous ball of dough, firm but resilient, neither too 
dry nor too soft, about 5 minutes; it should no longer stick to the surface. Poke 
it and it should spring right back; press your finger into the center and it should 
feel just a bit tacky. If it’s very sticky, knead in more flour. 
3. Wrap the dough loosely in plastic and refrigerate for at least 1 hour or
up to 8 hours. 
4. Use a pasta machine to make sheets of dough. First, divide the dough into 
four equal pieces. Flatten one piece with your hand and run it through the wid-
est setting on the machine twice. Set the rollers to the next narrower setting 
and pass the dough through twice. Continue notching down by one setting 
and passing the dough through two times. When you can see the shape and 
shadow of your hand through the sheet, stop rolling. Fill and cut as instructed. PASTA  99linguine with leeks, prosciutto & lemon 
S e r v e S  4
 4  oz. thinly sliced prosciutto, 
excess fat trimmed and 
reserved, lean part cut into 
1/4-inch-wide strips 
 2  Tbs. unsalted butter
 3  small leeks, white and tender 
green parts only, sliced (about 
2 cups) and well rinsed
   Salt and freshly ground black 
pepper
   Pinch of freshly grated nutmeg
 1  cup heavy cream 
 1  lb. dried linguine
 1  Tbs. lemon zest
  Juice of 1/2 lemon
 3/4  cup walnuts, roughly chopped 
and lightly toasted This recipe is also good with a wider, flat pasta such as fettuccine or 
tagliatelle. Trimming the prosciutto fat and rendering it at the start of this dish 
gives a little extra depth. If your market trims the fat from its prosciutto, just 
proceed using an extra tablespoon of butter to sauté the leeks. 
Bring a large pot of salted water to a boil for cooking the pasta. Chop the 
trimmed prosciutto fat, if using, and put it in a large skillet with the butter. Heat 
over medium until the butter is melted and the fat is translucent. Add the 
leeks, season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, and cover. Cook, stirring occa-
sionally, until tender but not browned, about 10 minutes. Add the prosciutto, 
stirring to distribute, and then add the cream. Reduce the heat to low and let 
heat gently, uncovered, while you cook the pasta until just tender. Reserve 
1 cup of the pasta cooking water and then drain the pasta, leaving drops of 
water clinging to it. Add the pasta and half of the reserved pasta cooking water 
to the skillet. Stir in the lemon zest and juice; season abundantly with black 
pepper. Heat gently for a few minutes to let the pasta drink up the sauce, add-
ing more pasta cooking water if needed to thin it. Add the walnuts and taste 
for salt and pepper. Serve immediately. —Molly Stevens
PER SERVING: 630 CALORIES  |  21G PROTEIN  |  68G CA RB  |  32G TOT AL FA T  |  13G SA T FA T  |   
9G MONO FA T  |  7G POL Y FA T  |  85MG CHOL  |  830MG  SODIUM  |  5G FIBER
campanelle with sausage and leeks 
S e r v e S  6
  Salt 
 2  Tbs. extra-virgin olive oil
 3/4   lb. sweet Italian sausage  
(casings removed), crumbled
 2  large leeks, trimmed, light 
green and white parts cut into 
1/2-inch pieces, washed well, 
and drained
 1  Tbs. finely chopped shallot
 2  Tbs. unsalted butter
 1  cup frozen young peas, de-
frosted and drained, or 1 cup 
fresh peas, blanched in boiling 
water for 2 minutes
 1  cup homemade chicken stock 
or lower-salt canned chicken 
broth
   Freshly ground black pepper
 1  lb. dried campanelle or other 
shaped dried pasta
 1/2  cup freshly grated Parmigiano- 
reggiano; more for serving, 
(optional)For this sauce, you want a short, shaped pasta with crevices to catch the 
pieces of sausage and peas. Campanelle are also called riccioli. 
1. Bring a large pot of water to a boil; add about 1 Tbs. salt. In a large skillet, heat 
the olive oil over medium-high heat. Cook the sausage, breaking up the lumps, 
until golden, about 5 minutes. Add the leeks and cook, stirring, until soft, about 
8 minutes. Stir in the shallot and cook for 1 minute. Add 1 Tbs. of the butter, the 
peas, and the stock. Heat to a boil, reduce the heat to medium low, and sim-
mer gently for 5 minutes. Season with salt and pepper, cover the skillet, and 
set aside; keep warm. 
2. Meanwhile, cook the campanelle, stirring occasionally, until al dente, about 
12 minutes. Drain the pasta and return it to the pot over low heat. Add the sau-
sage and leek sauce to the pasta and toss well. Remove the pot from the heat, 
add the remaining 1 Tbs. butter and the grated cheese; toss well. Transfer to 
a warmed serving platter or individual bowls. Serve immediately, with more 
grated cheese on the side, if you like.  —Lidia Bastianich
PER SERVING: 520 CALORIES  |  21G PROTEIN  |  61G CA RB  |  20G TOT AL FA T  |  7G SA T FA T  |   
9G MONO FA T  |  1G POL Y FA T  |  40MG CHOL  |  850MG  SODIUM  |  4G FIBER
100  P A S TA
