Corn: A Buyer’s Guide
There are four types of sweet corn: standard sweet, sugar-enh anced, super sweet, and synergistic. You 
won’t see these agricultural terms used at grocery stores or even at farmers’ markets, but they help t o 
explain the differences among them in terms of swee tness, tenderness, and how well they store. 
If you really want to know what type of corn you’re buying, ask the farmer. Just be prepared to try 
something new each time. The corn variety you saw on your last visit is probably not the same one 
you’re going to find on your next. In general, the more sugary varieties of corn take longer to grow and 
appear later at the market.
Standard sweet 
Common varieties include Butter and Sugar, with 
white and yellow kernels, and Silver Queen, with 
white kernels. This type of corn has a traditional 
corn flavor and texture, although sweetness 
varies among varieties. Its sugars are quicker to 
convert to starch, so it doesn’t keep long after 
harvest.  
Sugar-enhanced 
Delectable, Kandy Korn, and Seneca Dancer are 
three popular varieties. Known for having a more 
tender texture than the standard type, sugar-
enhanced corn is widely popular. Its degree of 
sweetness changes with the variety, but the 
conversion of sugar to starch is slower than that 
of standard sweet corn, so it holds up better.
Super sweet 
Varieties include Sun & Stars and Xtra-Sweet. 
The most sugary of all, this type of corn has less 
true corn flavor and a firmer, almost crunchy 
texture, because the skin on the kernels is 
tougher. It holds its sweetness longer than any 
other type of corn, which is why you’ll often see 
it in supermarkets, where the corn isn’t typically 
freshly picked. 
Synergistic 
A popular variety is Serendipity. This type has 
both the tenderness of sugar-enhanced corn 
and the more pronounced sweetness of super 
sweet. It requires more time to mature than 
sugar-enhanced corn and can be watery if 
harvested too soon.
P O L E N TA  &  R I S O T T O   191
Silver Queen
Super SweetSerendipity
Seneca Dancerbarley risotto with mushrooms 
and gremolata 
S E R V E S  6  A S  A  S I D E  D I S H ,  
4  A S  A  M A I N  C O U R S E
FOR THE GREMOLATA
 1 / 3   cup chopped fresh flat-leaf 
parsley
 2  Tbs. finely grated lemon zest
 1  Tbs. finely chopped garlic
FOR THE BARLEY RISOTTO
 1  oz. dried porcini mushrooms, 
rinsed 
 1  cup hot water
 2  Tbs. olive oil 
 1  lb. assorted fresh mushrooms, 
sliced 1/4 inch thick 
   Kosher salt and freshly ground 
black pepper 
 6  to 7 cups homemade or lower-
salt chicken or vegetable broth
 3  Tbs. unsalted butter 
 1  small onion, finely chopped
 2  cups pearled barleyWhen cooked like a risotto, barley develops a rich and creamy consistency. 
The parsley, lemon, and garlic garnish is a fresh, simple accent to the risotto’s 
nutty, robust flavors. 
MAKE THE GREMOLATA
In a small bowl, mix the parsley, lemon zest, and garlic.
MAKE THE RISOTTO
1. Soak the porcini in the hot water for at least 30 minutes. Strain the liquid 
through a fine-mesh sieve and reserve. Chop the porcini into small pieces.
2. In a large sauté pan with straight sides, heat the oil over high heat until shim-
mering but not smoking. Sauté the sliced fresh mushrooms until they release 
some liquid and are browned, about 5 minutes. Stir in the porcini and the 
reserved liquid, scraping up any browned bits. Season to taste with salt and 
pepper. Transfer the mushrooms and liquid to a bowl.
3. In a saucepan, bring the broth to a boil, reduce the heat, partially cover, and 
hold at a simmer.
4. In the pan used for the mushrooms, melt the butter over medium heat. Add 
the onion and cook until tender and translucent, 8 to 10 minutes. Add 2 tsp. 
salt and the barley, and stir until the grains are coated with butter. Add 1 cup of 
the hot broth, reduce the heat to low, and stir frequently until the broth is 
absorbed. Stir in another cup of broth. When it’s absorbed, add 1 more cup, 
stirring until it’s also absorbed. Add 2 more cups and simmer the barley, stirring 
frequently, until it softens but isn’t completely tender and the liquid is almost 
absorbed, about 10 minutes. Stir in the cooked mushrooms and their liquid 
and 1 to 2 more cups of broth. Simmer until the barley is tender, about another 
10 minutes, stirring frequently and adding hot wate r or broth if needed. The 
total cooking time for the barley can range from 30  to 60 minutes. Stir in the 
gremolata and adjust the seasonings to taste. Serve  hot. —Joyce Goldstein
PER SERVING: 390 CALORIES  |  12G PROTEIN  |  63G CA RB  |  12G TOT AL FA T  |  5G SA T FA T  |   
5G MONO FA T  |  1G POL Y FA T  |  15MG CHOL  |  690MG  SODIUM  |  13G FIBER
192  P O L E N TA  &  R I S O T T OAll about Barley
Barley is probably the oldest grain on the planet. It has a mild sweetness and, when cooked properly, 
a chewy but tender texture. Barley soup is standard diner fare, but this grain is also an excellent 
candidate for a creamy risotto or a simple pilaf. 
Buying tips 
Pearled barley is the most widely available—you’ll find it in the supermarket—and the easiest to cook. 
It has been abraded many times to remove the tough outer husk, and this lightens it to a buff color. 
Some varieties are white because all the bran and fiber have been polished off, which means it’s less 
nutritious. Brownish-gray whole-grain barley (also called 
hulled barley) is less widely available. You’ll most likely find it in 
a specialty or natural-foods store. 
Cooking basics 
Soaking pearled barley in water for a few hours or overnight 
will shorten the cooking time but isn’t required. Whole-grain 
barley, however, does require an overnight soak and may 
need longer cooking. 
Use 1 part barley to about 3 parts liquid. Bring the barley to 
a boil in salted water or broth, reduce to a simmer, and cook 
until tender but toothy. Cooking time ranges from 30 to  
60 minutes. For a creamier consistency, gradually add hot 
liquid in small increments, adding more as the grain absorbs 
the liquid and stirring all the while. 
P O L E N TA  &  R I S O T T O   193