50  P A S TA
spaghetti with portabellas, 
sage & walnuts
SE R V E S  4
 3/4  lb. dried spaghetti
 3  Tbs. extra-virgin olive oil
 1/2  cup unsalted butter
 3  large portabella mushroom 
caps, gills scraped out and 
discarded, caps thinly sliced 
and cut into 2-inch pieces
   Kosher salt and freshly ground 
black pepper
 2 / 3  cup loosely packed fresh sage 
leaves
 1 / 3  cup toasted walnuts, coarsely 
chopped
 1/2  cup freshly grated Parmigiano- 
Reggiano In this dish, mushrooms, sage, and walnuts turn ordinary spaghetti into the 
perfect fall meal. The mix is filling, flavorful, and a welcome diversion from 
traditional sauce.
1. Bring a large pot of salted water to a boil. Add the spaghetti and cook until it’s 
tender but still firm to the tooth, about 9 minutes. Reserve 1 cup of the pasta 
cooking water and then drain the pasta and set aside.
2. Meanwhile, heat the olive oil and 2 Tbs. of the butter in a 12-inch skillet over 
medium-high heat until the butter is melted. Add the mushrooms, season 
with salt and pepper, and cook, stirring occasionally, until they’re brown and 
tender, 4 to 5 minutes. Transfer the mushrooms to a bowl and set aside.
3. In the same sauté pan, melt the remaining 6 Tbs. butter over medium heat. 
Add the sage leaves, and cook, stirring occasionally, until they darken and crisp 
and the flecks of milk solids in the butter are golden brown, 3 to 5 minutes. 
Return the mushrooms to the pan and pile in the walnuts, the cooked pasta, 
and 1/2 cup of the pasta water. T oss the pasta continuously with tongs to coat 
well, adding more water as needed so the pasta is moist, 1 to 2 minutes. (If 
your skillet isn’t big enough, you can toss everything together in the pasta pot.) 
Season with salt and pepper, mound into bowls, and sprinkle generously with 
the Parmigiano. Serve immediately. —Arlene Jacobs
PER SERVING: 750 CALORIES  |  18G PROTEIN  |  72G CARB  |  44G TOT AL FA T  |  18G SA T FA T  |  
16G MONO FA T  |  7G POL Y FA T  |  70MG CHOL  |  670MG SODIUM  |  5G FIBERCooking Pasta Pr operly 
Help your pasta dish be its best by knowing a few of the hows 
and whys of cooking the pasta itself. 
Stir at the start  
Many pasta recipes begin like this: “Bring a large pot of water, 4 to 
5 quarts, to a rapid boil.” Do you really need this  much water? 
Well, if you’re only boiling a small amount of past a (less than  
1/2 lb.), you don’t need so much, but a generous pot of rapidly 
boiling water is helpful for several reasons: it co mes back to a 
boil faster when you add the pasta; it makes it eas ier to sub-
merge long, rigid pastas like spaghetti; and it hel ps to reduce 
sticking slightly by quickly washing away the exudi ng starch from 
the pasta surface. 
T o keep pasta from sticking, stir during the first minute or 
two of cooking. This is the crucial time when the pasta surface 
is coated with sticky, glue-like starch. If you don’t stir, pieces of 
pasta that are touching one another literally cook together.
Add salt, but not oil
While adding oil to the pasta water can prevent pasta from sticking, it’s at a great price. Pasta that’s cooked 
in oily water will become oily itself and, as a result, the sauce slides off, leaving you with flavorless pasta. And 
adding oil may keep the pasta water from bubbling up and boiling over the rim, but this can also be achieved 
by using a large pot and also by reducing the heat a little (but still maintaining a boil). This is a much better 
solution than greasing your pasta and sacrificing flavor. 
Salted water flavors the pasta. A generous amount of salt in the water seasons the pasta internally as it 
absorbs liquid and swells. The pasta dish may even require less salt overall. For a more complex, interesting 
flavor, add 1 to 2 Tbs. sea salt to a large pot of rapidly boiling water. 
Hot pasta absorbs more sauce 
T oss hot pasta with hot sauce quickly—without rinsing it—so the pasta absorbs more sauce and flavor. As it 
cools, the swollen starch in the pasta crystallizes and becomes insoluble, and the pasta won’t absorb as 
much sauce. Just so there’s no delay, always prepare the sauce first in a large skillet, even if it’s simply olive 
oil, garlic, and pepper flakes. The second the pasta is done, scoop it out of the water with a big ladle-type 
strainer or spider. Let the pasta drain over the pot for a few seconds, and then dump it into the hot sauce, 
stir well, and set a lid on the skillet. Let the pasta sit, covered, to absorb the sauce for a minute or two, and 
then remove the lid, stir again, and serve instantly. 
Starch-enriched cooking water thickens the sauce
Rinsing the pasta after cooking is a bad idea for a  couple of reasons. It can cool the pasta and preve nt 
absorption of a sauce, and it can wash away any rem aining surface starch, which at this point in the c ooking 
can work to your advantage. The small amount of sta rch left on the pasta by the cooking water can thic ken 
your sauce slightly.  —Shirley Corriher
P A S TA   5152  P A S TAorecchiette with brussels sprouts, gorgonzola  
& brown butter pecans
SE R V E S  4 T O  6
  K osher salt
 20  o z. Brussels sprouts, trimmed 
(4 cups) 
 31/2  Tbs. extra-virgin olive oil
   Freshly ground black pepper
 1  lb. dried orecchiette
 11/2  Tbs. unsalted butter
 1/2  cup coarsely chopped pecans
 2  large shallots, minced (3/4 cup)
 3/4  cup heavy cream
 4  oz. Gorgonzola, crumbled  
(1 cup)
 1  Tbs. freshly squeezed lemon 
juiceFor a sweet, nutty flavor, roast the Brussels sprouts until they’re just this side of 
charred.
1. Position a rack in the lower third of the oven, set a heavy rimmed baking 
sheet on the rack, and heat the oven to 500°F . Bring a large pot of well-salted 
water to a boil over high heat. 
2. In a food processor fitted with the medium (4 mm) slicing disk, slice the 
Brussels sprouts. Transfer them to a large bowl, drizzle with the oil, sprinkle 
with 11/4 tsp. salt and 1/2 tsp. pepper, and toss until well coated. Remove the hot 
baking sheet from the oven and spread the Brussels sprouts on it in a single 
layer. Roast, stirring once about halfway through the cooking time, until the 
Brussels sprouts are tender and flecked with charred bits, 15 to 20 minutes.
3. Meanwhile, cook the orecchiette according to package directions until just 
al dente.
4. In a medium heavy-duty skillet, melt 1/2 Tbs. of the butter over medium 
heat. Add the pecans and cook, stirring frequently, until the butter is deeply 
browned and the pecans are toasted, about 3 minutes. Transfer to a plate and 
set aside. 
5. Melt the remaining 1 Tbs. butter in the skillet over medium heat. Add the 
shallots and cook, stirring occasionally, until softened, 2 to 3 minutes. Add the 
cream and bring to a simmer. Off the heat, add 3 oz. (3/4 cup) of the Gorgonzola 
and stir until melted.
6. Drain the orecchiette and return it to the pot. Add the Brussels sprouts, 
Gorgonzola sauce, and lemon juice and toss well. Serve, sprinkled with the 
pecans and the remaining Gorgonzola. —Dawn Yanagihara
PER SERVING: 670 CALORIES  |  19G PROTEIN  |  67G CARB  |  36G TOT AL FA T  |  14G SA T FA T  |  
15G MONO FA T  |  4.5G POL Y FA T  |  70MG CHOL  |  700MG SODIUM  |  8G FIBER