bruschetta with herbed tomatoes 
S E R V E S  6  T O  8
 2  large ripe tomatoes, cut into  
1/4-inch slices (you should  
have 12 slices)
 4  Tbs. Rosemary-Garlic Oil 
(recipe below)
 1  tsp. chopped fresh thyme
   Scant 1/4 tsp. crushed red 
pepper flakes
   Kosher salt
 12  3/4-inch-thick slices crusty 
artisan-style bread (from 
about 1/2 pound loaf)
 1  tsp. balsamic vinegar,  
preferably agedFor these bruschetta, the quality of the tomatoes makes all the difference. Use 
good ripe ones from your garden or pick some up at the local farmers’ market. 
1. Heat a gas grill to medium or prepare a medium-hot charcoal fire. (Or heat 
the broiler to high.) 
2. Set the tomato slices on a small rack set over a rimmed baking sheet and 
sprinkle with 1 Tbs. of the oil, the thyme, red pepper flakes, and 1 tsp. kosher 
salt. Let sit at room temperature for at least 10 minutes or up to a couple  
of hours.
3. Brush both sides of the bread with the remaining 3 Tbs. oil. Sprinkle 
lightly with salt. Grill (or broil) until crisp with prominent grill marks (or nicely 
browned), about 2 minutes. Flip and cook the other side in the same manner. 
Transfer to a platter and let cool to room temperature (they can sit for up to  
2 hours, loosely covered). 
4. Pour the tomato juices from the baking sheet into a small bowl. Before serv-
ing, brush these juices on the bread. T op with the tomatoes and a drop or two 
of balsamic vinegar and serve. —Tony Rosenfeld
PER SERVING: 150 CALORIES  |  3G PROTEIN  |  16G CARB  |  8G TOT AL FA T  |  1G SA T FA T  |  
5G MONO FA T  |  1G POL Y FA T  |  0MG CHOL  |  450MG SODIUM  |  1G FIBER
rosemary-garlic oil 
M A K E S  1 1/2  C U P S
 11/2  cups extra-virgin olive oil
 6  cloves garlic, smashed and 
peeled
 3  sprigs fresh rosemary This wonderfully fragrant oil 
involves little more than heat-
ing the oil so that the garlic and 
rosemary just begin to sizzle and 
infuse it. 
Heat the olive oil and garlic  
in a small saucepan over  
medium heat, stirring occasion-
ally, until the garlic starts to 
bubble steadily, 3 to 4 minutes. 
Add the rosemary, remove from 
the heat, and let cool to room 
temperature. Transfer to a clean 
glass jar or other storage con-
tainer, cover, and refrigerate. Use 
within 5 days.
S TA R T E R S ,  S A L A D S  &  S O U P S   19fennel and orange salad with 
red onion and olives
S E R V E S  6
 1/2  small red onion
 2  large navel oranges or blood 
oranges
 2  to 3 small fennel bulbs, 
trimmed (about 1 lb. total 
after trimming)
 6  dry-cured black olives
 3  Tbs. extra-virgin olive oil
 11/2   Tbs. freshly squeezed  
lemon juice
   Kosher salt and freshly ground 
black pepper
 1  tsp. chopped fresh mintThis popular Sicilian salad is 
made with blood oranges when 
they are in season, but navel 
oranges work just as well. Serve 
it with roasted or grilled seafood. 
Bring the salad to the table with 
the layers intact and toss it  
right there.
1. Slice the onion half lengthwise 
as thinly as you can. Put the 
sliced onion in a bowl and cover with cold water to mellow its flavor and keep it 
crisp. Refrigerate for at least 15 minutes.
2. Working with one orange at a time, slice off both ends. Set the orange on a 
cutting board, one cut side down. With a sharp knife, cut away the peel (the 
zest and white pith) by slicing from top to bottom, following the contour of the 
orange. Working over a bowl to collect any juice, release the orange segments 
by carefully cutting them away from the membrane that separates them. Re-
move any seeds and put the orange segments in another bowl, separate from 
the juice. Squeeze the membranes over the juice bowl.
3. Cut the fennel in quarters lengthwise and then trim away most of the core, 
leaving just enough intact to keep the layers together. Slice the quarters 
lengthwise as thinly as you can.
4. With a paring knife, slice the olive flesh off the pits lengthwise. In a small 
bowl, whisk together the extra-virgin olive oil, lemon juice, and 3/4 tsp. salt.  
(The recipe can be prepared up to this point several hours in advance. If 
working ahead, wrap and refrigerate the fennel; don’t chop the mint until just 
before serving.)
5. Drain the sliced onion and toss it with the fennel. Put the fennel and onion in 
a shallow salad bowl or on a rimmed serving platter. Drizzle with the reserved 
orange juice. Arrange the orange segments on top and sprinkle with the olives 
and mint.
6. Drizzle the dressing evenly over the salad. Add several grinds of black pep-
per and serve immediately. —Rosetta Constantino
PER SERVING: 120 CALORIES  |  2G PROTEIN  |  13G CARB  |  8G TOT AL FA T  |  1G SA T FA T  |  
6G MONO FA T  |  1G POL Y FA T  |  0MG CHOL  |  240MG SODIUM  |  4G FIBER
 20   S TA R T E R S ,  S A L A D S  &  S O U P Smushroom salad with lemon,  
thyme & parmigiano
S E R V E S  6 
 1  large lemon
 2  Tbs. minced shallot  
(about 1 small)
 2  Tbs. chopped fresh flat-leaf 
parsley
 1  Tbs. coarsely chopped fresh 
thyme 
  Pinch of freshly grated nutmeg
   Kosher salt and freshly ground 
black pepper
 1 / 3  cup plus 1 Tbs. extra-virgin 
olive oil
 1  lb. button mushrooms, 
cleaned, trimmed, and sliced 
1/4 inch thick
   Scant 1/2 cup shaved  
Parmigiano-Reggiano  
(use a vegetable peeler)Make this delicious yet simple salad just before serving, since the longer the 
mushrooms marinate, the more liquid they’ll release. Pair with roast chicken or 
broiled steak.
1. Finely grate 1 tsp. zest from the lemon and then squeeze 2 Tbs. of juice. In 
a large serving bowl, mix the zest and juice with the shallot, parsley, thyme, 
nutmeg, 11/2 tsp. salt, and a few grinds of pepper. Whisk in the olive oil. Add the 
mushrooms and stir gently to coat. Let the salad marinate for 10 minutes. 
2. Just before serving, stir the mushrooms again, season to taste with salt and 
pepper, and scatter the Parmigiano on top. —Jennifer McLagan
PER SERVING: 160 CALORIES  |  3G PROTEIN  |  4G CARB  |  15G TOT AL FA T  |  2.5G SA T FA T  |  
10G MONO FA T  |  1.5G POL Y FA T  |  0MG CHOL  |  300MG SODIUM  |  1G FIBER