120  PASTA
PASTA  121double-cheese penne with  
sausage and hot cherry peppers 
S e r v e S  4  T O  6
  Kosher salt 
 2  Tbs. plus 1 tsp. extra-virgin 
olive oil
 3/4  lb. dried penne or ziti
 1  lb. sweet Italian sausage  
(4 or 5 links), casings removed 
 2  large cloves garlic, minced 
(about 2 tsp.)
 1   28-oz. can whole peeled  
tomatoes
 2   or 3 pickled Italian hot  
cherry peppers (from the 
jar), cored, seeded, and diced 
(about 1/2 Tbs.)
 2 / 3   cup freshly grated Parmigiano- 
reggiano (about 21/2 oz.); more 
for sprinkling 
   Freshly ground black pepper
 8  oz. shredded low-moisture 
part-skim mozzarella (2 cups)Italian sausage is traditionally made with pork, but chicken and turkey 
versions are widely available and are sometimes lower in fat.
1. In a large covered pot, bring 4 quarts salted water to a boil. Lightly grease an 
8x11-inch baking dish or 6 individual (11/2-cup) gratin dishes with 1 tsp. of the 
olive oil.
2. Add the penne or ziti to the boiling water and cook until it’s just tender but 
still firm to the tooth, about 11 minutes. Drain the pasta well and return it to its 
cooking pot.
3. Meanwhile, heat the remaining 2 Tbs. oil in a large straight-sided skillet over 
medium-high heat. When the oil is hot, add the sausage, let it sit for a minute, 
and then start stirring and breaking it into bite-size pieces with the side of a 
slotted metal spoon. Cook until lightly browned, another 2 to 3 minutes. Trans-
fer to a plate using the slotted spoon.
4. Add the garlic to the pan, season with salt, and cook, stirring constantly, until 
it colors slightly, about 30 seconds. Add the tomatoes and their juices and 
cook at a rapid simmer, stirring occasionally and breaking up the tomatoes 
with the spoon, for 5 minutes so the sauce thickens slightly. 
5. Meanwhile, position an oven rack about 6 inches from the broiler element 
and heat the broiler on high. Stir the sausage and its juices, the diced peppers, 
and 1 / 3 cup of the Parmigiano into the sauce. Cook, stirring, until the sausage is 
cooked through, 3 to 5 minutes. T aste for salt and pepper. Pour the sauce over 
the cooked pasta in the pot and stir well. Spread the pasta and sauce evenly in 
the baking dish or gratin dishes. Sprinkle with the mozzarella and the remain-
ing 1 / 3 cup Parmigiano. Put the baking dish or gratin dishes on a baking sheet 
and broil until the cheese melts and browns in places, 2 to 4 minutes (check 
often to be sure they don’t burn). Serve immediately with more Parmigiano, if 
you like.  —Fine Cooking editors
PER SERVING: 610 CALORIES  |  40G PROTEIN  |  49G CA RB  |  28G TOT AL FA T  |  11G SA T FA T  |   
13G MONO FA T  |  3G POL Y FA T  |  65MG CHOL  |  1,27 0MG SODIUM  |  4G FIBER
Made from coarsely ground pork mixed with 
seasonings including fennel seed, sweet Italian 
sausage is one of two types of Italian sausage (the 
other being hot). It is a fresh sausage (as opposed 
to cured or dried) and must be well cooked 
before eating. Most often in sold in links, it’s also 
sometimes available as patties or bulk sausage. 
Though Italian sausage is traditionally made with 
 pork, chicken and turkey versions are also widely 
available (and are sometimes lower in fat).
How to prep
T o easily remove the meat from its casing, split 
the casing lengthwise with a sharp knife.
How to store
For longer storage, freeze Italian sausage links 
(well wrapped) for up to 3 months.All about Sweet Italian Sausage122  PASTAbeef and pork ragù lasagne 
S e r v e S  8  T O  1 0
FOr THe rAGU
 3  oz. (6 Tbs.) unsalted butter
 1/4   cup extra-virgin olive oil
 2  medium ribs celery, finely 
chopped ( 11 / 3 cups)
 2  medium carrots, peeled and 
finely chopped (2 / 3 cup)
 2  small yellow onions, finely 
chopped ( 11 / 3 cups)
 1  lb. boneless beef brisket or 
chuck, finely diced or ground 
(2 cups)
 1  lb. boneless pork shoulder, 
finely diced or ground  
(11/2 cups)
 8  oz. pancetta, finely diced  
(11/4 cups)
 2  cups dry red wine
 1/2   cup canned tomato purée 
 1/4   cup tomato paste diluted in  
1/2 cup water
 2  cups homemade or lower-salt 
beef or chicken broth; more as 
needed
 1  cup whole milk
   Kosher salt and freshly ground 
black pepper
TO ASSeMBLe
 1/2   oz. (1 Tbs.) unsalted butter, 
cut into small cubes; more for 
the pan
 1  lb. dried lasagna noodles, 
cooked
   Basic Cream Sauce  
(recipe on the facing page) 
 1  cup freshly grated  
Parmigiano-reggianoA rich and meaty ragù sets this lasagne apart from most recipes that are 
heavy on cheese and tomato sauce. The extra step of making your own 
cream sauce is worth the depth of flavor that results.
MAKe THe rAGù
In a 5- to 6-quart Dutch oven, melt the butter with the oil over medium heat. 
Add the celery, carrots, and onion and cook, stirring occasionally, until 
softened and lightly golden, about 15 minutes. Add the beef, pork, and 
pancetta and cook, breaking up the meats with a spoon and stirring often, until 
the meats lose their redness, 5 to 8 minutes. Stir in the wine, tomato purée, 
and tomato paste and simmer vigorously until the liquid is almost evaporated, 
15 to 20 minutes. Add the broth and milk, cover with the lid ajar, reduce the 
heat to low, and simmer gently until you have a rich, concentrated sauce, 
about 21/2 hours. Check every 30 minutes to see if more liquid is needed, 
adding more broth if necessary to prevent scorching. Season to taste with salt 
and pepper, if needed. Let cool. Skim off the fat from the top, if desired. You 
should have about 6 cups.
ASSeMBLe THe LASAGNe
1. Position a rack in the center of the oven and heat the oven to 350°F . Choose 
a baking dish that’s about 9x12 inches and 3 inches deep or about 10x14 inch-
es and 2 inches deep. Butter the baking dish. Spread 1/2 cup of ragù in a sparse 
layer on the bottom of the dish. Then cover with a slightly overlapping layer 
of cooked noodles, cutting them as needed to fill the gaps. Spread one-third 
of the remaining ragù (about 11/2 cups) over the first layer of noodles. Drizzle 
on one-third of the cream sauce (about 1 cup) and spread it with a spatula or 
the back of a spoon. Sprinkle with 1 / 3 cup of the Parmigiano. Add a new layer of 
noodles, overlapping them slightly.
2. Repeat the layers until all of the filling ingredients are used, to make a total 
of three layers (you may not need all the pasta). Dot the top with the butter 
cubes.
3. Put the baking dish on a baking sheet and bake until heated through and 
bubbling at the edges, 45 to 50 minutes. Remove from the oven and let rest 
for 10 to 15 minutes before serving. —Joyce Goldstein
PER SERVING: 620 CALORIES  |  30G PROTEIN  |  29G CA RB  |  39G TOT AL FA T  |  17G SA T FA T  |   
15G MONO FA T  |  3G POL Y FA T  |  170MG CHOL  |  1,1 40MG SODIUM  |  2G FIBER
chopping meat  
for ragù
Cut each piece into ¼-inch slices, then 
cut the slices into thin strips lengthwise 
and dice the strips crosswise. Alterna-
tively, you can pulse the meat in a food 
processor, but be careful not to chop it 
too finely or into a paste.
