Instead of making a pizza, fold 
the dough in half and bake it 
into a steamy calzone. Vents 
allow steam to escape so that 
it doesn’t build up and burst the 
crimped edge of the calzone.
PREP THE DOUGH 
1. T ake the dough out of the 
refrigerator, set it on a lightly 
oiled work surface, and divide 
into 4 equal pieces of about  
7 oz. each. Roll each piece into 
a tight ball. Line a baking sheet with parchment and lightly oil it with olive oil or 
cooking spray. Set each ball at least an inch apart on the parchment. Lightly 
spray or brush the balls with olive oil and cover loosely with plastic wrap. Let 
the dough warm up and relax at room temperature for 11/2 to 2 hours.
2. Position a rack in the center of the oven and heat the oven to 500°F (a bak-
ing stone is optional). Fill a small bowl with bread flour, or semolina if using, and 
dust a clean work surface with a generous amount. Prepare your fillings.
SHAPE THE DOUGH
With floured hands, transfer one of the dough balls  to the floured work surface. 
Sprinkle lightly with flour and press it with your fingertips into a round disk. 
With a rolling pin, roll the dough out into an oval or round shape about 3 / 16 inch 
thick and 9 inches across. Dust with flour as necessary to prevent sticking. If 
the dough resists rolling and springs back, let it rest for a few minutes and 
move on to the next dough ball. Roll out all the pieces that you plan to make 
into calzones.
FILL AND BAKE THE CALZONES
1. Brush the edge of a dough round with cool water to make a damp band 
about 1/2 inch wide all the way around. Spread the sauce over the lower half 
of the dough. Sprinkle the soft melting cheese over the sauce, and then top 
with your additional filling choices and the Parmigiano. Fold the top half of the 
dough over the filling. Crimp the dough either with fingers or a fork, sealing the 
damp edge tightly. Transfer the calzone to a baking sheet lined with parch-
ment. Repeat with the remaining dough circles. Brush the tops with olive oil, 
sprinkle lightly with kosher salt (optional), and cut 3 steam vents in each.
2. Put the baking sheet in the oven (on the baking stone, if using) and reduce 
the oven temperature to 450°F . Bake until the crust turns a rich golden brown, 
12 to 15 minutes. Remove from the oven and cool for 3 minutes before serving. 
—Peter Reinhart
36  P I Z Z A ,  C A L Z O N E  &  S T R O M B O L I
calzone
S E R V E S  4
 1  recipe Pizza Dough (recipe  
p. 34), refrigerated for at 
least 8 hours
   Olive oil, for brushing
   Unbleached bread flour or 
semolina flour, for dusting
 1  cup No-Cook Tomato Sauce 
(recipe p. 35)
 2  cups low-moisture mozzarella 
or other soft melting cheese 
 1  cup filling (see choices below)
 1/4  cup grated Parmigiano-
Reggiano
  Kosher salt (optional)
filling ideas
For each calzone, you’ll  
need 1/4 cup thick No-Cook 
T omato Sauce (recipe p. 35), 
 1/2 cup of a soft melting 
cheese (such as low-moisture 
mozzarella, Monterey Jack, 
provolone, Gouda, smoked 
mozzarella, or smoked 
Gouda), up to 1/4 cup of any 
other ingredients you like 
(such as crumbled cooked 
sausage or bacon; sautéed 
or steamed vegetables like 
onions, broccoli, peppers, 
mushrooms, artichoke 
hearts, or garlic; and chopped 
fresh herbs like basil or 
parsley), and 1 Tbs. grated dry 
aged cheese (like Parmigiano-
Reggiano, Asiago, or Romano).P I Z Z A ,  C A L Z O N E  &  S T R O M B O L I   37stromboli
S E R V E S  4
 1  recipe Pizza Dough (recipe  
p. 34), refrigerated for a t least 
8 hours
   Unbleached bread flour or 
semolina flour, for dusting
 1  heaping cup grated  
low-moisture mozzarella
 1  cup filling, such as sliced ham, 
crumbled cooked sausage, 
chopped olives, or sautéed 
small-diced onions
   Extra-virgin olive oil, for 
brushing
   No-Cook Tomato Sauce  
(recipe p. 35), heated, for 
dippingThis pizzeria classic only looks 
complicated. Basically, it’s a flat 
pizza that’s rolled it into a tight 
spiral and baked.
SHAPE AND FILL THE STROMBOLI
1. Prepare your filling. T ake the 
dough out of the refrigerator. 
Dust a work surface lightly with 
flour, or semolina if using, and 
transfer the dough to the work 
surface. Dust the dough with flour 
and press it into a rectangle with 
your fingertips. Divide the dough in half crosswise. Roll one piece of dough into 
a larger rectangle, working from the center of the dough to each of the four 
corners and then to each of the four sides to even out the rectangle, until it’s 
1 / 8 to 1/4 inch thick. It should be approximately 11 inches long and 14 inches wide. 
Use more dusting flour as needed.
2. Cover the surface of a dough rectangle with 1 cup cheese and your addition-
al filling choices, leaving a 1-inch border. Tightly and evenly roll the stromboli 
from the bottom to the top, pinching the seam tightly closed with fingers or 
thumbs. Also pinch the two ends closed and tuck them under the loaf. Repeat 
with the second piece of dough. Carefully lift the long loaves and put them 
seam side down on a baking sheet lined with parchment. Brush the top of the 
loaves with olive oil and loosely cover the pan with plastic wrap. 
LET THE STROMBOLI WARM UP
Leave the loaves at room temperature for about 11/2 hours. The dough won’t 
rise very much but will just be showing signs of expansion by the time it’s ready 
to be baked.
BAKE THE STROMBOLI
Heat the oven to 400°F (350°F if using convection). Brush the dough again 
with olive oil and cut 3 or 4 steam vents crosswise into each stromboli with a 
sharp paring knife, cutting all the way down through the filling to release any 
air pockets. Bake until the crust turns a rich golden brown, 20 to 30 minutes, 
rotating the pan after the first 10 minutes for even baking. Let cool for at least 
5 minutes before slicing and serving with the heated tomato sauce on the side 
for dipping. —Peter Reinhart
filling ideas
For each stromboli you’ll  
need about 1 heaping cup  
of grated melting cheese;  
1 cup of any other ingredients 
you like, such as salami, 
crumbled cooked sausage, 
ham, chopped crisp bacon, 
sautéed fresh or thawed 
frozen spinach (squeeze out 
excess water), chopped 
parcooked broccoli, 
small-diced onion, sautéed or 
roasted garlic, chopped olives 
or capers; and heated 
No-Cook T omato Sauce 
(recipe p. 35) for dipping.