fregola with grill-marinated  
red peppers and zucchini
SER V E S  6 TO 8
 2   red bell peppers, cored and 
cut into four pieces
 11/4   lb. zucchini (4 small), trimmed 
and quartered lengthwise
 5  Tbs. Rosemary-Garlic Oil 
(recipe p. 19)
   Kosher salt and freshly ground 
black pepper
 1  Tbs. red-wine vinegar
 3  Tbs. chopped fresh mint, plus 
3 Tbs. torn leaves 
 2  tsp. chopped fresh thyme
 3/4  lb. fregolaFregola is a tiny toasted pasta from Sardinia. You can substitute any tiny 
pasta, but toast it first. 
1. Heat a gas grill to medium or prepare a medium-hot charcoal fire. In a large 
bowl, toss the peppers and zucchini with 2 Tbs. of the oil, 1 tsp. salt, and 1/2 tsp. 
black pepper. Arrange the vegetables on the grill and cook, covered if using 
a gas grill, until they have nice grill marks, about 3 minutes for zucchini and 
5 minutes for peppers. Flip and cook until the other sides are well browned, 
too, another 3 to 5 minutes. Continue cooking and flipping occasionally until 
the zucchini is crisp-tender and the peppers are completely tender with very 
charred skins, 8 to 10 minutes total for zucchini and 12 to 15 minutes total for 
peppers. Transfer to a large cutting board to cool.
2. Scrape the charred skins off the peppers. Coarsely chop the vegetables and 
transfer to a large serving bowl. T oss with 2 Tbs. of the oil, the vinegar, chopped 
mint, and thyme. Season with salt and pepper to taste and let sit for up to  
2 hours at room temperature. 
3. Up to 1 hour before serving, bring a large pot of w ell-salted water to a boil. Add 
the fregola and cook, stirring occasionally, until just tender (about 10 minutes). 
4. Drain the pasta and toss with the vegetables. Drizz le with the remaining 1 Tbs. 
oil and season to taste with salt and pepper. Sprinkle with the torn mint and 
set out on the table for serving. —T ony Rosenfeld
PER SERVING: 260 CALORIES  |  7G PROTEIN  |  37G CAR B  |  10G TOT AL FA T  |  1.5G SA T FA T  |   
7G MONO FA T  |  1.5G POL Y FA T  |  0MG CHOL  |  500M G SODIUM  |  3G FIBER
220  S I D E SThis summer squash comes in a couple of different colors. 
Green zucchini is usually medium or dark green with tiny golden 
flecks; its skin is smooth or lightly ridged. It is best when not more 
than 6 inches long. Lebanese zucchini (also called Middle 
Eastern) is shorter and plumper than its darker relatives, with a 
blunt, rounded bottom end. This celadon-colored squash has 
think, tender skin and creamy flesh. Golden zucchini is sunny 
yellow and shaped just like its green cousin. 
How to choose
Look for squash that’s brightly colored, firm, and plump, with no 
blemishes. The skin should have a smooth, glossy sheen. Stay 
away from bruised, dull-looking, or flaccid squash, which will be 
bland and watery.
How to store
Store zucchini in a plastic bag in the fridge for 3 to 4 days, taking 
care not to let other objects bruise its skin.All about Zucchinicannellini beans with lemon,  
roasted red peppers & bacon
SER V E S  6
 1  medium lemon, scrubbed
 2  oz. thick bacon (about 2 slices), 
cut crosswise into thin strips
 2  Tbs. extra-virgin olive oil 
 1  tsp. chopped fresh rosemary
 1  large clove garlic, minced
 1 / 8   tsp. crushed red pepper flakes
 2  151/2-oz. cans cannellini beans, 
rinsed and drained  
 3/4   cup lower-salt chicken broth 
 2  jarred roasted red peppers, 
cut into small dice
   Kosher salt and freshly ground 
black pepperSmoky bacon, sweet roasted red pepper, and tangy lemon transform canned 
beans in this easy side dish. Serve with lamb chops or sausages. 
1. Using a vegetable peeler, shave six 1-inch-wide strips of zest from the lemon 
(avoid the white pith). Cut the strips crosswise 1/4 inch wide. Juice half of the 
lemon and reserve the juice and zest separately.
2. In a 3-quart saucepan over medium heat, cook the bacon with 1 Tbs. of 
the oil, stirring occasionally, until it renders most of its fat and starts to brown, 
3 to 5 minutes. Using a slotted spoon, transfer the bacon to a paper-towel-
lined plate. 
3. Remove the pan from the heat and add the rosemary, garlic, and red 
pepper flakes; cook, swirling the contents of the pan, until sizzling steadily 
and fragrant, about 30 seconds. Return the pan to medium heat and add the 
beans, chicken broth, roasted peppers, and lemon zest. Bring to a boil, then 
reduce the heat to maintain a steady simmer. Cook, stirring occasionally, until 
the broth thickens and the flavors meld, 10 to 15 minutes. Stir in 1 Tbs. of the 
lemon juice and 1/2 tsp. pepper. Season to taste with more lemon juice or salt. 
Serve drizzled with the remaining 1 Tbs. oil and sprinkled with the bacon.  
—T ony Rosenfeld
PER SERVING: 200 CALORIES  |  8G PROTEIN  |  23G CAR B  |  8G TOT AL FA T  |  1.5G SA T FA T  |   
4.5G MONO FA T  |  1.5G POL Y FA T  |  5MG CHOL  |  46 0MG SODIUM  |  6G FIBERBlack Bean Soup  
with Sweet Potatoes  
(recipe on page 5)
rustic fig and raspberry  
mini crostatas  
(recipe on p. 224)desserts
rustic fig and raspberry mini crostatas  
p. 224
grilled fresh figs with ice cream and 
honey p. 225
strawberry-balsamic granita  p. 225
lemon sabayon with blueberry sauce 
and shortbread cookies  p. 226
tiramisù p. 228gianduia mousse  p. 230
creamy orange-ricotta tart  p. 232
orange-hazelnut olive oil cookies  
p. 234
gingerbread biscotti  p. 235
triple-chocolate biscotti  p. 236
nougat glacé  p. 238
lemon curd fruit souffles  p. 240rustic fig and raspberry mini crostatas
M A K E S  1 0
FOR  THE  DOUG H 
 71/2   oz. ( 12 /3 cups) unbleached all-
purpose flour 
 33/4   oz. (3/4 cup) whole-wheat flour 
 1/4   cup plus 1/2 Tbs. sugar 
 1  tsp. ground cinnamon 
 1/2   tsp. kosher salt 
 9  oz. (1 cup plus 2 Tbs.) cold 
unsalted butter, cut into small 
pieces 
FOR THE FILLING AND ASSEMBLY
 3/4   lb. small fresh figs (preferably 
Brown Turkey), quartered 
(about 2 cups) 
 6  oz. fresh raspberries  
(11/2 cups) 
 1 / 3   cup plus 2 Tbs. sugar 
 3  Tbs. plus 1 tsp. honey 
 1  Tbs. fresh thyme, roughly 
chopped 
 2  tsp. finely grated orange zest 
 3  Tbs. plus 1 tsp. graham cracker 
crumbs 
 1  oz. (2 Tbs.) cold unsalted  
butter, cut into 10 slices
 11/2   Tbs. heavy cream An inspired combination of figs, raspberries, fresh thyme, orange zest, and 
honey makes these Italian-style pies an unexpected change from the familiar. 
MAKE THE DOUGH 
1. Put the flours, sugar, cinnamon, and salt in a food processor. Add the butter 
and pulse in short bursts until the mixture resembles coarse meal. Add 
3 Tbs. cold water and pulse. If the mixture seems dry, add water 1 Tbs. at a 
time, pulsing until the dough just starts to come together. Do not overprocess. 
Turn the dough out onto a clean work surface, gather it together, and portion it 
into ten 21/2-oz. rounds. Flatten them into disks, wrap individually in plastic, and 
refrigerate for at least 2 hours and up to 3 days.
2. When ready to bake, position racks in the bottom and top thirds of the
oven and heat the oven to 400°F . Line 2 large rimmed baking sheets with 
parchment.
3. On a lightly floured surface with a lightly floured rolling pin, roll each dough 
disk into a 51/2-inch round that’s about 1 / 8 inch thick. Put 5 rounds on each bak-
ing sheet.
MAKE THE FILLING 
In a medium bowl, lightly toss the figs, raspberries, 1 / 3 cup of the sugar, the 
honey, thyme, and orange zest until combined.
ASSEMBLE AND BAKE THE CROSTATAS 
1. Sprinkle each round of dough with 1 tsp. graham cracker crumbs, leaving a 
1/2-inch border. Put a generous 1/4 cup of the fig mixture in the center of each 
dough round, mounding the fruit. T op each tart with a butter slice.
2. Fold the edges of the dough over some of the fruit to create a 1-inch rim, 
leaving the center exposed. Work your way around, pleating the dough as 
you go. With a pastry brush, brush the crust of each crostata with cream and 
sprinkle the crusts and filling with the remaining 2 Tbs. sugar.
3. Bake until the crostatas are golden brown, 30 to 35 minutes, swapping and 
rotating the baking sheets’ positions about halfway through baking.
4. Transfer the baking sheets to racks to cool for about 5 minutes. Then loosen 
the crostatas with an offset spatula and cool completely on the sheets. The 
crostatas are best the day they’re made. —Karen Barker
PER SERVING: 450 CALORIES  |  5G PROTEIN  |  55G CAR B  |  25G TOT AL FA T  |  15G SA T FA T  |   
6G MONO FA T  |  1G POL Y FA T  |  65MG CHOL  |  75MG SODIUM  |  4G FIBER
224  D E S S E R T SGraham cracker crumbs sprinkled in the center of each dough 
round soak up juices released by the fruit during baking, preventing 
soggy bottoms.