capellini with shellﬁsh,  
haricots verts & tomatoes
S e r v e S  4
 24  littleneck clams, scrubbed and 
rinsed
 1/4  cup olive oil
 1/2   lb. large sea scallops, halved or 
quartered depending on their 
size
 6  cloves garlic, crushed
 2  cups cored, peeled, and 
crushed plum tomatoes or 
1 can (28 oz.) Italian plum 
tomatoes (preferably San 
Marzano), drained, seeded, 
and crushed
 1/4   tsp. crushed red pepper flakes
 1  Tbs. salt
 1/4   lb. haricots verts, trimmed
 1  Tbs. chopped fresh flat-leaf 
parsley
 1/2   lb. dried capellini or linguineHaricots verts are slender, young green beans. If you can’t find them, substi-
tute regular green beans, but slice them lengthwise. 
1. Put the clams and about 1/2 cup water in a medium skillet. Cover and steam 
over high heat until the clams open, about 2 minutes. Discard any that don’t 
open. Remove the clams and reserve. Strain the liquid from the pan and 
reserve. In the same skillet, wiped dry, heat 2 Tbs. of the oil over high heat. Add 
the scallops and sear on both sides until lightly browned, about 2 minutes; 
remove and reserve them. In the same skillet, heat the crushed garlic in the 
remaining 2 Tbs. oil until lightly browned. Add the tomatoes and red pepper 
flakes and simmer over moderate heat for 15 minutes.
2. Meanwhile, bring a large pot of water to a boil and add the salt. Add the 
haricots verts and cook until just tender; remove with a slotted spoon and 
add them to the tomato sauce. (Keep the water boiling.) Add the scallops, the 
clams, and the strained clam liquid to the tomato sauce and cook until the 
sauce is slightly reduced, about 3 minutes. Stir in the parsley. 
3. While the sauce reduces, stir the pasta into the boiling water and cover until 
the water comes back to a boil. Uncover and cook until the pasta just starts to 
become pliable but is still somewhat firm, about 2 minutes. With tongs, lift the 
pasta, let it drain for a moment over the boiling water, and add it to the sauce, 
tossing well, to finish cooking. When the pasta is al dente, transfer the pasta 
and sauce to a warm serving platter or individual bowls and serve immediately.  
—Lidia Bastianich
PER SERVING: 550 CALORIES  |  35G PROTEIN  |  49G CA RB  |  23G TOT AL FA T  |  3G SA T FA T  |   
15G MONO FA T  |  2G POL Y FA T  |  65MG CHOL  |  240M G SODIUM  |  4G FIBER
136  P A S TATo trim green beans, work with a small handful at a time. Lightly 
tap the stems on a cutting board until they’re all lined up. Cut all 
the stems and tails off with a single chop of a chef’s knife. Wash the 
beans after you trim. Now that they’re trimmed, you can toss them 
into the colander for rinsing without keeping them lined up.PASTA  137pasta shells with chicken, 
mushrooms & capers
S e r v e S  2  G e N e r O U S LY
 1/2   oz. dried porcini mushrooms, 
soaked in 11/4 cups warm water 
for 30 minutes
 2  Tbs. olive oil
 3  Tbs. unsalted butter
 4  oz. button mushrooms, wiped 
clean and sliced
 1  large shallot, thinly sliced
 1  clove garlic, minced
 11/2   tsp. chopped fresh rosemary
 3/4   lb. boneless, skinless chicken 
thighs (3 to 4 thighs), cut into 
bite-size pieces 
   Kosher salt and freshly ground 
black pepper
 1/2  cup dry white wine
 6  to 8 oz. dried pasta shells or 
farfalle 
  Splash of sherry vinegar
 2  Tbs. capers, rinsed
   Grated romano cheese, for 
serving (optional)The flavor of the chicken thigh’s 
dark meat marries nicely with 
the hearty, savory character of 
this main-dish pasta, but if you 
prefer, substitute breast meat. 
Opt for dried pasta here rather 
than fresh. It’ll better absorb the 
flavors in the pan. 
1. Strain the porcini, reserving the 
soaking liquid. Squeeze them dry, 
chop them into small pieces, and set aside. Strain the soaking liquid through 
a fine-mesh sieve or a coffee filter; set aside. Bring a large pot of salted water 
to a boil for cooking the pasta. Meanwhile, in a large skillet over medium-high 
heat, heat the oil and 2 Tbs. of the butter. Add the fresh mushrooms and 
cook briskly, stirring frequently, until lightly browned and most of their liquid 
has evaporated, about 5 minutes. Add the shallot, garlic, rosemary, and the 
drained, chopped porcini. Cook, stirring briskly, until the shallot is soft, about 
4 minutes. Add the chicken pieces, season with salt and pepper, and cook for 
another 2 minutes. Pour in the wine and the reserved porcini soaking liquid; 
bring to a boil. Simmer uncovered until the chicken is tender and cooked 
through, about 12 minutes.
2. Meanwhile, cook the pasta until just tender. Drain the pasta, leaving drops of 
water clinging to it, and add it to the skillet. Add the vinegar and capers; heat 
gently for a few minutes to let the pasta drink up the juices. Stir in the remain-
ing 1 Tbs. butter and taste for salt and pepper. Serve warm with the grated 
Romano, if you like. —Molly Stevens
PER SERVING: 880 CALORIES  |  48G PROTEIN  |  79G CA RB  |  39G TOT AL FA T  |  15G SA T FA T  |  
17G MONO FA T  |  4G POL Y FA T  |  190MG CHOL  |  990 MG SODIUM  |  5G FIBER
tortellini en brodo
M A K e S  A B O U T  6  Q U A r T S 
B r O T H  A N D  2 0 0  T O r T e L L I N I ; 
S e r v e S  1 4
FOr THe BrOTH
 1  4-lb. chicken, cut into 6 pieces 
 2  lb. veal bones or veal shank 
 2  lb. beef stew meat or scraps 
 1   medium yellow onion,  
quartered 
 2   medium carrots, cut into large 
pieces 
 2   ribs celery, cut into large 
pieces 
 1   3-inch-square Parmigiano-
reggiano rind (optional) 
  Kosher salt 
FOr THe FILLING 
 1   oz. (2 Tbs.) unsalted butter 
 5   oz. boneless pork loin, 
trimmed and cut into 1/2-inch 
cubes (about 1 cup) 
 1/2  cup dry white wine 
 3   oz. sliced prosciutto, coarsely 
chopped (2 / 3 cup) 
 3   oz. sliced mortadella, coarsely 
chopped (3/4 cup) 
 1   oz. freshly grated Parmigiano-
reggiano (1/2 cup grated on the 
small holes of a box grater) 
 1/2  tsp. freshly grated nutmeg 
 1  large egg, lightly beaten 
  Kosher salt 
FOr THe PASTA DOUGH 
 101/2   oz. ( 21 / 3 cups) unbleached all-
purpose flour; more as needed 
 4  large eggs 
FOr ServING 
   Freshly grated Parmigiano-
reggiano This comforting dish of stuffed 
pasta in a hearty broth is a holi-
day tradition in northern Italy. 
It’s often served as a first course, 
followed by a pork or veal roast 
and lots of winter vegetables. 
Both the tortellini and the broth 
can be made ahead.
MAKe THe BrOTH 
1. Wash the chicken, veal bones, 
beef, and vegetables under cold 
running water. Put all of the broth ingredients, except the salt, in a 10-quart pot 
and add 61/2 quarts (26 cups) of cold water. Partially cover the pot and bring to 
a simmer over medium heat. As soon as the water begins to bubble, reduce 
the heat to low and, with a fine-mesh skimmer or a large spoon, skim off and 
discard any foam that has risen to the surface. Partially cover the pot and  
simmer gently until the broth is flavorful, about 21/2 hours. Add 1 Tbs. salt 
during the last few minutes of cooking.
2. Remove the chicken and discard or save the meat for another use. Using a 
slotted spoon, discard the remaining solids from the broth. Strain the broth 
through a fine strainer into a large bowl. Line the strainer with a clean thin 
kitchen towel or cheesecloth and strain the broth again into another large 
bowl. You should have about 6 quarts of broth. Transfer the broth to storage 
containers and refrigerate overnight. Remove the fat and reserve the broth.
MAKe THe FILLING 
1. Melt the butter in a 10-inch skillet over medium heat. Add the pork and 
cook, stirring, until lightly golden and cooked through, about 4 minutes. 
Increase the heat to high, pour in the wine, and stir until it is almost evapo-
rated, 3 to 5 minutes. Let cool slightly.
2. Transfer the pork and its juices to a food processor. Add the prosciutto and 
mortadella and pulse until the mixture is very finely chopped (but not puréed).
3. Transfer the filling to a medium bowl and add the Parmigiano, nutmeg, egg, 
and 3/4 tsp. salt. Mix well. (The filling should be moist and just a little sticky.) 
Cover the bowl with plastic wrap and refrigerate.
MAKe THe PASTA DOUGH 
1. On a large wooden board or other work surface, shape the flour into a 
mound. Using your fingers, make a round well in the center of the flour. Care-
fully crack the eggs into the well, making sure they don’t escape the walls of 
the well. Lightly beat the eggs with a fork. Begin to incorporate flour into the 
eggs with the fork, starting from the inner rim of the well, until about half of the 
flour is incorporated and a soft dough begins to form.
2. With a dough scraper, push all of the remaining flour to one side of the 
board. Scrape off and discard the bits and pieces of dough attached to the 
board. Wash and dry your hands. Begin adding some of the flour you have 
138  P A S TA
