62  P A S TA
gnocchi with creamy gorgonzola sauce
M A K ES  2 SC A N T  C U P S  S A U C E; 
SE R V E S  6
  K osher salt
FOR  TH E SAUC E
 1 1/2   cups heavy cream
 1/2   lb. Gorgonzola dolce (soft  
Gorgonzola), rind removed 
and cheese cut into 1-inch 
dice, at room temperature
 1 1/2   tsp. unbleached all-purpose 
flour
FOR THE GNOCCHI
 1   recipe Potato Gnocchi (recipe 
on the facing page) 
 1 / 3   cup chopped fresh flat-leaf 
parsley (optional)Melt-in-your-mouth homemade gnocchi are teamed with rich Gorgonzola for 
a decadent-but-worth-it dish. 
Bring a large pot of well-salted water to a boil over high heat.
MAKE THE SAUCE
Heat the heavy cream in a 12-inch skillet over medium-high heat until small 
bubbles begin to form in the middle and on the sides, 1 to 2 minutes. Add the 
Gorgonzola and cook, stirring, until it’s completely melted, about 2 minutes. 
Reduce the heat to medium and whisk in the flour. Cook, stirring, until the 
sauce is slightly thickened, about another 3 minutes. Turn off the heat and 
cover to keep warm.
COOK THE GNOCCHI AND TOSS WITH THE SAUCE
T o get the gnocchi into the boiling water, fold the parchment ends to form a 
chute and gently shake the gnocchi out, taking care not to clump them to-
gether as you drop them in. Give one gentle stir, wait until the gnocchi all float 
to the surface of the water, and then cook them for 1 minute. Carefully drain 
the gnocchi in a colander. Transfer them to the sauce and gently toss to coat. 
Serve immediately, topped with the parsley, if using.  —Laura Giannatempo
PER SERVING: 590 CALORIES  |  16G PROTEIN  |  54G CA RB  |  34G TOT AL FA T  |  21G SA T FA T  |   
7G MONO FA T  |  1G POL Y FA T  |  155MG CHOL  |  840M G SODIUM  |  4G FIBERP A S TA   63potato gnocchi
SE R V E S  6
 2  lb. russet potatoes (about  
4 medium), scrubbed
 63/4  oz. (11/2 cups) unbleached 
all-purpose flour; more for 
kneading and rolling 
 1  tsp. kosher salt
 1  large egg, lightly beatenClassic Italian gnocchi are pressed on a fork to curl 
them and impart the traditional ridges. T o save 
time, cut them in small squares and leave them as 
little pillows. They’re a lot less fussy to make and 
taste just as good.
1. Put the unpeeled potatoes in a large pot. Fill the 
pot with enough cold water to cover the potatoes 
by at least 2 inches and bring to a simmer over 
medium-high heat. Reduce the heat to medium, 
partially cover the pot, and simmer the potatoes 
until they’re completely tender and easily pierced 
with a skewer, 30 to 35 minutes. 
2. Drain the potatoes, let them cool just enough that you can handle them, and 
then peel them. Cut them in half crosswise and pass them through a ricer into 
a large bowl. Let cool until almost at room temperature, at least 20 minutes.
3. Lightly flour a work surface. In a small bowl, mix the flour with the salt. Add 
the egg to the potatoes and then add the flour mixture. Mix with your hands 
until the flour is moistened and the dough starts to clump together; the dough 
will still be a bit crumbly at this point. Gather the dough together and press it 
against the bottom of the bowl until you have a uniform mass. Transfer it to 
the floured surface and wash your hands. Knead gently until the flour is fully 
incorporated and the dough is soft, smooth, and a little sticky, 30 seconds to 
1 minute. (Don’t overmix it or the gnocchi will be tough; the dough should feel 
very delicate.) Move the dough to one side, making sure the surface under-
neath it is well floured. Cover it with a clean kitchen towel.
4. Cover 2 large rimmed baking sheets with parchment and sprinkle lightly 
with flour.
5. Remove any lingering bits of dough from your work s urface and lightly reflour 
the surface. T ear off a piece of dough about the size of a large lemon and put 
the towel back on the rest of the dough so it doesn’t dry out.
6. With the palms of both hands, roll the 
dough piece on the floured surface into a 
rope about 3/4 inch in diameter. With a sharp 
knife or a bench knife, cut the rope cross-
wise every 3/4 inch to make roughly 3/4-inch-
square gnocchi. Arrange the gnocchi in a 
single layer on the prepared baking sheets, 
making sure they don’t touch. Repeat until 
you run out of dough, reflouring the work 
surface as needed. When all the gnocchi 
have been cut and spread out on the baking 
sheets, sprinkle them with a little more flour. 
If you’re going to use the gnocchi within 2 to 
3 hours, they can sit out on the counter.
You can serve freshly 
made gnocchi right 
away or within a 
couple of hours, or 
freeze them for later 
use. Don’t refrigerate 
fresh gnocchi for 
more than 2 or 
3 hours, as they tend 
to ooze water and 
become soggy.Make Aheadorecchiette with tomatoes,  
basil & ricotta salata
SE R V E S  4
 1  Tbs. salt 
 1  recipe Basic Orecchiette 
(recipe on the facing page)
 3  medium ripe tomatoes, 
peeled, seeded, and coarsely 
chopped 
 2  large cloves garlic, minced
 2  Tbs. extra-virgin olive oil
   Salt and freshly ground  
black pepper to taste
 1/2  cup tightly packed fresh basil 
leaves, sliced into thin strips
 1/4  cup crumbled ricotta salataRicotta salata is a firm, slightly salty cheese that’s becoming more available in 
grocery stores. If you can’t find it, try feta instead. 
1. Bring a large pot of water to a boil. Add the salt and orecchiette and cook 
until done, about 8 minutes for freshly made or about 20 minutes for dried.
2. Meanwhile, combine the tomatoes, garlic, and olive oil in a large bowl. 
Season with salt and pepper, but keep in mind that the cheese will add more 
saltiness. (This sauce can be kept at room temperature for several hours 
and will get more garlicky as it sits.) When the pasta is cooked, drain it and 
toss it with the tomato mixture. Sprinkle with the basil and cheese and serve 
immediately. —Natalie Danford
PER SERVING: 440 CALORIES  |  13G PROTEIN  |  73G CAR B  |  10G TOT AL FA T  |  2G SA T FA T  |   
6G MONO FA T  |  1G POL Y FA T  |  10MG CHOL  |  420MG  SODIUM  |  5G FIBER
64  P A S TAhandling basil
This sun-loving herb is vigorous 
in the garden, but once cut, it’s 
fragile and susceptible to bruising, 
so careful handling and storing 
are a must. Your knife should be 
especially sharp when cutting 
herbs to avoid bruising the tender 
leaves. We’ve heard of many ways 
of cutting basil to keep the edges 
from blackening, from slicing the 
leaves vertically to drawing the 
knife toward you as you cut. A 
sharp knife really does make all the 
difference: The less you mash, the 
less you’ll damage the leaf. If it’s 
appropriate for your recipe and 
you have the time, gently tearing 
the leaves instead of cutting them 
is a nice alternative and seems to 
reduce blackening.