braised italian chicken with 
green beans, tomatoes & olives
SE R V E S  4
 2   lb. boneless, skinless chicken 
thighs, trimmed of excess fat 
and each cut into 3 uniform 
pieces
   Kosher salt and freshly ground 
black pepper
 1/2   cup unbleached all-purpose 
flour
 2  to 3 Tbs. extra-virgin olive oil
 3/4   lb. green beans, trimmed and 
cut in half
 3  cloves garlic, smashed and 
peeled
 1 / 3  cup dry red wine
 1   141/2-oz. can diced tomatoes
 1   tsp. chopped fresh rosemary
 1/2   tsp. crushed red pepper flakes
 1 / 3   cup pitted, quartered  
Kalamata olivesThis simple weeknight dish 
comes together quickly with 
chicken thighs and a few other 
ingredients you likely have in 
your pantry or growing in your 
garden.
1. Season the chicken with 1 tsp. 
salt and 1/2 tsp. black pepper. 
Spread the flour on a plate, and 
lightly dredge the chicken in the 
flour. Heat 2 Tbs. of the oil in a large Dutch oven or casserole over medium-
high heat until the oil is shimmering hot. Cook the chicken in two or three 
batches (to avoid crowding the pot) until well browned on both sides, 2 to  
3 minutes per side. Transfer each batch to a plate as it finishes, and if the pot 
looks dry between batches, add the remaining 1 Tbs. oil. 
2. Return the chicken to the pot, add the green beans, garlic, 1/2 tsp. salt, and 
1/2 tsp. black pepper, and cook, stirring, for 2 minutes. Add the red wine and 
cook until it almost completely evaporates, 1 to 2 minutes. Add the tomatoes 
and their juice, rosemary, and red pepper flakes. Bring to a boil, then lower the 
heat to a steady simmer. Cover, leaving the lid slightly ajar, and cook, stirring 
occasionally for 15 minutes. Add the olives, and continue simmering with the 
lid ajar until the chicken and green beans are very tender, about 5 minutes 
more. Season with salt and pepper to taste. Serve immediately.  
—T ony Rosenfeld
PER SERVING: 500 CALORIES  |  44G PROTEIN  |  17G CA RB  |  27G TOT AL FA T  |  6G SA T FA T  | 
14G MONO FA T  |  5G POL Y FA T  |  150MG CHOL  |  1,0 60MG SODIUM  |  3G FIBER
160  M A I N  C O U R S E Schicken milanese
SE R V E S  2
 1  Tbs. minced shallot 
 2  tsp. red-wine vinegar 
 1/2   tsp. Dijon mustard 
 1  small clove garlic, mashed to a 
paste with 1/4 tsp. salt with the 
side of a chef’s knife
   Kosher salt and freshly ground 
black pepper
 2  Tbs. plus 2 tsp. extra-virgin 
olive oil 
 1  medium (6-ounce) ripe  
tomato, cut into 8 wedges 
 2  skinless, boneless chicken 
breast halves
 1  large egg
 1  cup dry homemade or 
store-bought medium-fine 
breadcrumbs
 2  Tbs. unsalted butter
 4  oz. baby arugula, washed 
and spun dry (4 cups loosely 
packed)If you want to make this dish in the wintertime—and you will—use finely shaved 
fresh fennel instead of the tomatoes. 
1. Whisk together the shallot, vinegar, mustard, garlic paste, and a large pinch 
of pepper in a large bowl. Add 2 Tbs. of the olive oil in a slow steady stream, 
whisking constantly, until the dressing emulsifies. Add the tomatoes to the  
vinaigrette and set aside until ready to serve, up to 2 hours.
2. Mix 1/4 tsp. each salt and pepper in a small cup. Pound the chicken to 3 / 8 inch 
thick between two sheets of waxed paper or plastic wrap. Season with some 
of the salt and pepper. 
3. Beat the egg in a wide shallow bowl until smooth. Spread the breadcrumbs 
on a plate. Dip a chicken breast into the egg, coating thoroughly and shaking 
off any excess. Then dip it into the breadcrumbs, patting on the crumbs so 
both sides are well coated and shaking off any excess. Lay the breaded breast 
on a sheet of waxed paper. Repeat with the other chicken breast.
4. Heat the butter and 2 tsp. olive oil in a heavy, large (preferably 12-inch) skillet 
over medium-high heat. When the oil is hot enough to sizzle a breadcrumb, 
add the chicken breasts, keeping them separated. Cook, shaking the pan 
occasionally, until golden brown, about 2 minutes. Season each breast with 
some of the salt and pepper, gently turn over with tongs, taking care to keep 
the golden crust intact, and cook  until the second side is golden brown, 1 to  
2 minutes. Watch carefully and don’t let the crumbs get too dark. Season with 
salt and pepper and drain for just a moment on paper towels. 
5. T o serve, add the arugula to the vinaigrette and tomatoes and toss. Arrange 
the sautéed chicken on warm serving plates and top each with a tall pile of the 
salad. —Lori Longbotham
PER SERVING: 700 CALORIES  |  39G PROTEIN  |  47G CA RB  |  39G TOT AL FA T  |  12G SA T FA T  | 
21G MONO FA T  |  5G POL Y FA T  |  210MG CHOL  |  1,7 60MG SODIUM  |  3G FIBER
M A I N  C O U R S E S   161162  M A I N  C O U R S E Stuscan grilled chicken,  
sausage & sage skewers
SE R V E S  6 T O  8
 21/2    lb. boneless, skinless chicken 
thighs (7 or 8), trimmed of 
excess fat and cut in half (the 
pieces should be roughly equal 
in size; if the thighs are large, 
cut them in thirds or quarters)
 1/2   cup plus 2 Tbs. Rosemary-
Garlic Oil (recipe p. 19)
 1   tsp. chopped fresh rosemary
   Kosher salt and freshly ground 
black pepper
 11/2   lb. sweet Italian sausage links, 
cut into 2-inch pieces 
 24   large fresh sage leaves The crisp, intensely flavored sage leaves are delicious eaten with the chicken 
and sausage on these skewers.
1. Up to a day ahead and at least a couple of hours before serving, toss the 
chicken in a medium bowl with 2 Tbs. of the oil, the rosemary, 1 tsp. salt, and  
1/2 tsp. pepper. 
2. Heat a gas grill to medium or prepare a medium-hot charcoal fire. Divide the 
remaining 1/2 cup oil into two small bowls (one for grilling and one for serving). 
Alternately thread three pieces of sausage, three pieces of chicken, and four 
sage leaves onto six 12-inch metal skewers (or wooden skewers that have 
been soaked in water for 30 minutes). 
3. Grill the skewers, covered, until one side is browned and has good grill 
marks, about 4 minutes. Brush with some of the rosemary-garlic oil, flip, and 
cook the other side until it, too, has good grill marks, about 4 minutes. Brush 
with more oil and flip again. Continue cooking, flipping, and brushing with oil 
until the sausage and chicken are both cooked through (check by slicing into a 
couple of the thicker pieces), about another 10 minutes.
4. Let cool for a couple of minutes and then arrange on a platter, drizzle on the 
remaining oil, and set out for guests to serve themselves. —T ony Rosenfeld
PER SERVING: 510 CALORIES  |  34G PROTEIN  |  2G CAR B  |  40G TOT AL FA T  |  10G SA T FA T  | 
22G MONO FA T  |  6G POL Y FA T  |  120MG CHOL  |  750 MG SODIUM  |  0G FIBER
162  M A I N  C O U R S E S
