fettuccine with green beans 
and walnut-parsley pesto
SE R V E S  6
   K osher salt and freshly ground 
black pepper
 10  oz. fresh green beans, rinsed, 
trimmed, and snapped in half
 1  lb. dried fettuccine 
 1  cup Walnut-Parsley Pesto 
(recipe below)
 10  oil-packed sun-dried 
tomatoes, thinly sliced
 2  tsp. freshly squeezed lemon 
juice; more to taste
 6  Tbs. freshly grated 
Parmigiano-ReggianoThe blend of vibrant ingredients 
in this pesto adds layers of flavor 
to the dish. 
Bring a large pot with 4 quarts 
water and 1 Tbs. salt to a boil. 
Add the green beans and cook 
until just tender, 3 to 4 minutes. 
Using a slotted spoon, transfer 
the beans to a large bowl, cover 
with cold water, and then drain. Return the cooking water to a boil and cook 
the dried fettuccine to al dente, about 10 minutes (if fresh, cook for 2 to  
4 minutes). Drain and transfer to a large serving bowl. Add the beans, pesto, 
sun-dried tomatoes, lemon juice, 1 tsp. salt, and several grinds of pepper; 
toss well. T aste and add more salt, pepper, and lemon juice, if you like. Serve 
immediately with a sprinkling of the cheese. —T ony Rosenfeld
PER SERVING: 500 CALORIES  |  18G PROTEIN  |  60G CARB  |  22G TOT AL FA T  |  5G SA T FA T  |  
10G MONO FA T  |  7G POL Y FA T  |  10MG CHOL  |  850MG SODIUM  |  6G FIBER
54  P A S TAwalnut-parsley pesto
Put the parsley, walnuts, cheese, scallions, and 1 tsp. salt in a food processor. 
Turn on the machine and slowly pour the olive oil in through the feed tube. 
Process until the mixture comes together into a thick paste. With the machine 
running, add the lemon juice and 3 to 4 Tbs. water to thin the mixture to a 
thick, paste-like consistency. Adjust the seasoning with salt, pepper, and more 
lemon juice to taste.
M A K E S  A B O U T  2  C U P S
 2  cups loosely packed, coarsely 
chopped fresh flat-leaf 
parsley (from 1 or 2 bunches) 
 1  cup coarsely chopped walnuts, 
toasted and cooled
 3/4   cup freshly grated Parmigiano-
Reggiano
 1  cup thinly sliced scallions  
(white and green parts from 
about 6 medium scallions)
   Kosher salt and freshly ground 
black pepper
 1/2   cup extra-virgin olive oil
 2  tsp. freshly squeezed lemon 
juice; more to tasteCheck the blades on your food processor. 
As a food processor ages, so do its 
blades, which begin to dull with use. Blunt 
blades bruise herbs and other pesto 
ingredients, causing them to oxidize and 
darken quickly.risotto-style pasta with peas and mushrooms
SE R V E S  2 O R  3  AS  A M A IN 
C O U R SE O R  4 AS  A S I D E D I S H
 3/4   o z. dried porcini or dried  
shiitake mushrooms
 21/2  to 3 cups lower-salt canned 
chicken broth 
 2  Tbs. extra-virgin olive oil
 1  small red onion, finely diced
   Kosher salt and freshly ground 
black pepper
 1/2  lb. dried elbows 
 1  cup frozen peas
 1/2  cup grated Parmigiano- 
Reggiano
 2  Tbs. unsalted butter
  Grated zest of 1 lemon
 12  fresh basil leaves, torn into 
large piecesFrozen peas are usually picked when they’re young and tender and taste 
sweet, making them a terrific alternative to fresh peas.
1. Soak the dried mushrooms in 1 cup boiling water until they soften, about 
10 minutes. Heat the chicken broth in a medium saucepan over low heat. 
Transfer the mushrooms to a cutting board and chop very coarsely. Slowly 
pour off the mushroom soaking liquid into the chicken broth, leaving any 
sediment behind.
2. Heat the oil in a large saucepan over medium-high heat for 30 seconds. Add 
the onion; season generously with salt and pepper. Cook, stirring, until the 
onion is soft and translucent, about 3 minutes. Add the pasta and cook, 
stirring, until it browns in places and is coated e venly with the oil, about 1 minute. 
Add the mushrooms and 1 cup of the broth; stir well. When the broth reaches 
a boil, reduce the heat so that it simmers gently. When the broth is almost 
completely absorbed, continue to add broth in 1/2-cup increments, stirring 
until it’s almost completely absorbed before adding more. After the third 
addition is absorbed, toss in the peas and continue adding broth and stirring 
until the pasta is just tender, about 14 minutes total (you may not need to use 
all of the broth). Remove the pan from the heat. Stir in the Parmigiano, butter, 
half of the lemon zest, and half of the basil. T aste and add more lemon zest, 
salt, or pepper if you like. Serve immediately with the remaining basil sprinkled 
on top. —T ony Rosenfeld
PER SERVING: 440 CALORIES  |  16G PROTEIN  |  57G CA RB  |  17G TOT AL FA T  |  7G SA T FA T  |   
8G MONO FA T  |  1G POL Y FA T  |  25MG CHOL  |  500MG  SODIUM  |  5G FIBERspicy capellini
SE R V E S  6
 1 / 3 cup olive oil
 8  slices bacon, chopped
 2  medium onions, thinly sliced
 10  peperoncini, drained, seeded 
and chopped
 3  cups crushed peeled Italian 
tomatoes (about one 35-oz. 
can, drained)
 1/4 tsp. kosher salt
 1  lb. dried capellini
 3/4  cup freshly grated  
Parmigiano-Reggiano
 1 / 3  cup chopped fresh flat-leaf 
parsley (optional)You can find peperoncini—hot, pickled peppers also known as Tuscan 
peppers—in the supermarket near the pickles and relishes or with other 
imported Italian products. 
1. In a large, nonreactive skillet, heat 3 Tbs. of the olive oil over medium heat. 
Add the bacon and cook until lightly browned, about 10 minutes. Add the 
onions and cook, stirring occasionally, until golden, about 15 minutes. Add the 
peperoncini, tomatoes, and salt, and simmer for about 10 minutes.
2. Meanwhile, bring 4 quarts salted water to a boil. Add the pasta and cook 
until al dente, about 3 minutes. Drain the pasta and toss it with the remaining 
oil. Stir in the sauce. Add the Parmigiano, toss well, and serve immediately, 
garnished with the parsley, if using. —Lidia Bastianich
PER SERVING: 640 CALORIES  |  19G PROTEIN  |  61G CA RB  |  35G TOT AL FA T  |  11G SA T FA T  |   
18G MONO FA T  |  3G POL Y FA T  |  30MG CHOL  |  860M G SODIUM  |  5G FIBER