roasted green beans with  
lemon, pine nuts & parmigiano
SER V E S  4 TO 6 
 11/4   lb. fresh green beans, rinsed 
well and stem ends trimmed
 1  small head garlic
 1/4   cup plus 2 Tbs. extra-virgin 
olive oil
 11/2   Tbs. finely grated lemon zest 
(from 1 to 2 medium lemons), 
plus 2 Tbs. freshly squeezed 
lemon juice
   Kosher salt and freshly ground 
black pepper
 1 / 3   cup (about 11/2 oz.) pine nuts
 1/4   cup coarsely grated  
Parmigiano-Reggiano
 1  Tbs. coarsely chopped fresh 
flat-leaf parsleyRoasted green beans are elevated to standout status when combined with 
pine nuts and Parmigiano.
1. Position racks in the top and bottom thirds of the oven. Heat the oven
to 450°F .
2. Put the beans in a large bowl. Peel the garlic, quarter each clove lengthwise 
(if the cloves are small, halve them), and add them to the green beans. T oss 
the beans and garlic with 1/4 cup of the olive oil, 1 Tbs. of the lemon zest, 1 tsp. 
salt, and 1/2 tsp. pepper.
3. Spread the beans on a rimmed baking sheet and roast in the top third of 
the oven for 10 minutes. Stir the beans and garlic with a spatula for more even 
cooking and coloring. Continue roasting until the beans and garlic pieces are 
lightly browned and tender throughout, another 10 to 15 minutes. 
4. Meanwhile, spread the pine nuts out on a rimmed baking sheet and toast in 
the bottom third of the oven until just golden, about 5 minutes. 
5. Transfer the beans to a small serving platter or shallow bowl and dress with 
the lemon juice and the remaining 2 Tbs. olive oil. T oss gently to coat and 
season to taste with salt and pepper. Sprinkle on the toasted pine nuts, the 
remaining 1/2 Tbs. lemon zest, the Parmigiano, and the parsley. Serve hot or at 
room temperature. —Ris Lacoste
PER SERVING: 220 CALORIES  |  4G PROTEIN  |  13G CAR B  |  19G TOT AL FA T  |  2.5G SA T FA T  |   
11G MONO FA T  |  4G POL Y FA T  |  0MG CHOL  |  340MG  SODIUM  |  4G FIBER
S I D E S   213sautéed escarole with raisins,  
pine nuts & capers
SER V E S  4
  Kosher salt
 2  lb. escarole (about 2 heads), 
trimmed, rinsed, and cut into 
roughly 2-inch pieces
 2  Tbs. extra-virgin olive oil
 3  large cloves garlic, smashed 
and peeled
 2  Tbs. pine nuts
 2  Tbs. raisins
 1  Tbs. capers, rinsed
   Pinch of crushed red pepper 
flakes
 1  tsp. freshly squeezed lemon 
juice Wait until just before serving to add the lemon juice, as the acid in the juice will 
dull the escarole’s color if it sits for too long.
1. Bring a large pot of well-salted water to a boil over high heat. Add the esca-
role and cook until the stem pieces start to soften, about 2 minutes (the water 
needn’t return to a boil). Drain, run under cold water to cool, and drain again.
2. In a 12-inch skillet, heat the olive oil and garlic over medium heat, stirring 
occasionally, until the garlic browns lightly, 2 to 3 minutes. Remove the garlic 
with tongs and discard. Add the pine nuts, raisins, capers, and pepper flakes 
and cook, stirring, until the pine nuts are golden and the raisins puff, about  
1 minute. Add the escarole, increase the heat to medium high, and cook, 
tossing often, until heated through and tender, 3 to 4 minutes. Sprinkle with 
the lemon juice and season to taste with salt. —Jennifer Armentrout
PER SERVING: 140 CALORIES  |  3G PROTEIN  |  11G CAR B  |  10G TOT AL FA T  |  1G SA T FA T  |   
6G MONO FA T  |  2.5G POL Y FA T  |  0MG CHOL  |  530M G SODIUM  |  6G FIBER
214  S I D E SEscarole goes by a few aliases, including Batavian 
endive, common chicory, and broad chicory. 
Whatever you call it, escarole is a bitter leafy 
green that’s part of the chicory genus, so it’s 
closely related to frisée, radicchio, curly endive, 
and Belgian endive. It grows into an open, 
somewhat flat head of broad, crumpled-looking, 
light to dark green leaves with wide, fleshy stems.
   Compared to that of its other chicory cousins, 
escarole’s bitterness is relatively mild, and you 
can eat it raw or cooked. Raw escarole has a crisp 
texture and a slightly sweet flavor that tempers 
the bitterness, making it a perfect choice for 
winter salads. It’s especially delicious paired with 
apples, pears, cheeses (blue or goat), olives, and 
nuts. Once cooked, escarole develops a tender, 
melting texture, and its bitterness becomes a 
little more pronounced. It’s great in soups or 
sautéed with other strong flavors, like capers and 
garlic, as a side dish. Escarole and white beans is a 
classic pairing.
Buying and storing
Choose heads of escarole with perky, fresh-
looking leaves. Avoid any with tough-looking outer leaves, especially 
if there are signs 
of browning 
around the tops 
of the leaves. 
Store escarole in 
a plastic bag in 
your refrigerator’s 
crisper bin for up 
to 3 days.
Cooking
T o use escarole in a soup, simply chop it up, 
stems and all, and add it to the soup in the last  
15 or 20 minutes of cooking—enough time to 
become very tender. If you’re planning to sauté 
the escarole, it’s worth taking the extra step of 
blanching it in boiling water for a couple of 
minutes first. Though there are plenty of recipes 
that call for sautéing escarole without blanching, 
we’ve found that this approach results in a 
tough-textured dish that looks like wilted lettuce. 
In comparison, blanched and sautéed escarole 
has a succulent texture and a brighter green color.All about Escarole
216  S I D E Sgiardiniera
MAK E S  A B O U T  3 Q U A RT S
 1  small head cauliflower
 2  medium red bell peppers
 1  medium yellow bell pepper
 2  ribs celery
 3  small pickling cucumbers
 1  lb. carrots (baby carrots are  
especially nice)
 2  to 3 small Japanese eggplant
 3   cups white-wine vinegar or 
rice vinegar
 21/2  cups water
 4  Tbs. sea salt or kosher salt
 4  cloves garlic, peeled
 2  to 3 small dried chile pods
 12  whole black peppercorns
 8  large sprigs fresh dill
  Olive oilThis updated version of the 
traditional Italian pickled 
vegetables is colorful, spicy,  
and easy, and it can be made in  
small batches. 
1. Thoroughly clean and trim the 
vegetables, removing all blem-
ishes, seeds, ribs from inside the 
peppers, and tough cauliflower 
stems. Cut the vegetables into 
uniform sizes; we like 2-inch 
pieces. (Baby carrots can be left 
whole.) Blanch the eggplant for 1 minute in boiling salted water. Pack all the 
vegetables snugly into a clean glass jar with a clamp lid.
2. In a glass or ceramic bowl, mix the vinegar, water, salt, and seasonings. Pour 
the mixture over the vegetables to completely submerge them. Make more 
pickling liquid if necessary. T op off with a 1/2-inch layer of olive oil. Store in a 
cool pantry for 2 weeks before eating. —Jeanne Quan
long-cooked green beans with oregano
S E R V E S  6  T O  8
 4  Tbs. olive oil
 6  cloves garlic, chopped coarse 
   Leaves from 8 sprigs of fresh 
oregano
 13/4   lb. mature string beans
 2   tsp. kosher salt
   Freshly ground black pepper 
   Juice from 1 lemon
 1/2   cup waterWarm the olive oil in a heavy-based pot over medium heat. Add the garlic and 
oregano and soften gently for about 2 minutes. Put the beans in the pot, add 
the salt, and grind a little black pepper over all. Add the lemon juice and water 
and bring to a boil. Immediately reduce to a simmer, cover the pot, and cook 
the beans for 20 minutes. Remove the cover and cook the beans until nearly 
all the liquid in the pot has evaporated, 30 to 35 minutes. During this time, turn 
the beans over upon themselves with tongs to mix them and coat them with 
the reducing juices. Allow to cool briefly and serve. —Paul Bertolli
PER SERVING: 100 CALORIES  |  2G PROTEIN  |  8G CARB   |  7G TOT AL FA T  |  1G SA T FA T  | 
5G MONO FA T  |  1G POL Y FA T  |  0MG CHOL  |  490MG SODIUM  |  4G FIBER
