P A S TA   69gnocchi with brown butter, 
sage & parmigiano
SE R V E S  6  T O  8 
AS  A FI RST C O U R SE
  K osher salt 
 1/4     lb. (1/2    cup) unsalted butter
 24  medium fresh sage leaves
 1/2     lemon
 1  recipe Potato Gnocchi 
(recipe p. 63)
   Parmigiano-Reggiano, for 
gratingThis sauce demonstrates how 
simple can be spectacular—
be sure to use high-quality 
ingredients. The recipe is easily 
halved.
1. Bring a large pot of well-salted 
water to a boil over high heat.
2. Heat a large skillet over high 
heat and add the butter. (If you’re 
making the entire recipe, work in batches or in 2 skillets.) Raise the heat and 
add the sage leaves, swirling them in the butter.
3. Brown the butter (without burning it) to a deep amber, crisping the sage 
leaves during this process. You’ll see darker flecks of butter solids; this is fine. 
Add a squeeze of lemon and take the pan off the heat.
4. T o get the gnocchi into the boiling water, fold the parchment ends to form 
a chute and gently shake the gnocchi out, taking care not to clump them to-
gether as you drop them in. Give one gentle stir, wait until the gnocchi all float 
to the surface of the water, and then cook them for 1 minute. 
5. Carefully drain the gnocchi in a colander and toss them into the pan. Season 
with a little salt. Gently toss the gnocchi in the browned sage butter, stir-
ring occasionally to make sure none is sticking to the bottom. Portion onto 
warmed plates, drizzling any remaining brown butter over the pasta. Grate the 
Parmigiano over each portion and serve at once. —Laura Giannatempo
PER SERVING: 330 CALORIES  |  7G PROTEIN  |  41G CAR B  |  16G TOT AL FA T  |  10G SA T FA T  |  
5G MONO FA T  |  1G POL Y FA T  |  70MG CHOL  |  640MG  SODIUM  |  2G FIBER
linguine with roasted asparagus 
and almond pesto
SE R V E S  4 T O  6
  K osher salt
 3/4   lb. asparagus, trimmed
 2   cups grape tomatoes
 1/4   cup extra-virgin olive oil
 1/2   cup sliced almonds
 1/4   cup fresh basil leaves
 2  Tbs. finely grated  
Parmigiano-Reggiano
  Freshly ground black pepper
 1  lb. dried linguineThis pesto recipe doubles easily; keep any extra in a sealed container in the 
refrigerator for up to a week. It’s delicious on crostini for a quick bite or served 
with roast chicken or salmon.
1. Position racks in the upper and lower thirds of the oven and heat the oven to 
425°F . Bring a large pot of well-salted water to a boil over high heat. 
2. Arrange the asparagus in a single layer on one-half of a large rimmed baking 
sheet. Arrange the tomatoes on the other half of the sheet. Drizzle both with 
1 Tbs. of the oil, season with 1/4 tsp. salt, and toss to coat. Roast on the top rack 
until the tomatoes have collapsed and the asparagus are bright green, about 
20 minutes. 
3. While the vegetables roast, put the almonds on another rimmed baking 
sheet and toast on the bottom rack, stirring occasionally, until fragrant and 
lightly browned, 10 to 12 minutes.
4. Reserve 1 heaping Tbs. of the almonds for garnish and put the remaining 
almonds in a food processor. Remove the tips from the asparagus and set 
aside. Roughly chop the remaining asparagus and add to the food processor 
along with the basil, cheese, 1/2 tsp. salt, and the remaining 3 Tbs. olive oil. Pulse 
until a coarse paste forms, about 10 seconds. Season to taste with salt and 
pepper and transfer to a large serving bowl. 
5. Cook the linguine in the boiling water according to package directions until 
al dente. Drain the pasta and reserve 1/2 cup of the pasta cooking water.  
Add the pasta to the pesto and toss to coat. If necessary, add some or all 
of the reserved cooking water to loosen the pesto to a saucy consistency. 
Garnish with the tomatoes, asparagus tips, and reserved almonds, and serve. 
—Allison Fishman
PER SERVING: 430 CALORIES  |  14G PROTEIN  |  61G CA RB  |  15G TOT AL FA T  |  2G SA T FA T  |   
9G MONO FA T  |  2.5G POL Y FA T  |  0MG CHOL  |  390M G SODIUM  |  5G FIBER
70  P A S TAP A S TA   71cool penne with olives, capers & feta
SE R V E S  6
  K osher salt 
 12  o z. dried penne
 7  Tbs. extra-virgin olive oil
 7  Tbs. red-wine vinegar
 2  cloves garlic, minced
  Freshly ground black pepper
 1  Tbs. chopped fresh oregano
 1  cup thinly sliced red onion
 3/4   cup pitted Kalamata olives, 
very coarsely chopped
 5  Tbs. drained capers
 1  small green bell pepper, thinly 
sliced
 1  small yellow or orange bell 
pepper, thinly sliced
 1  pint tiny cherry tomatoes (red 
or yellow or a mix) or grape 
tomatoes, halved or quartered
 8  oz. feta, crumbled
  Fresh oregano sprigs, for  
  garnishThe bright Mediterranean flavors in this pasta make it a terrific accompani-
ment to grilled full-flavored fish such as bluefish, mackerel, or salmon.
1. In a large pot, bring 6 quarts water and 2 Tbs. salt to a boil. Add the penne 
and cook until al dente, 10 to 12 minutes. Drain the pasta and toss it immedi-
ately with 1 Tbs. of the olive oil. Let it cool completely in the refrigerator.
2. In a large bowl, whisk the remaining 6 Tbs. olive oil with the vinegar and garlic. 
Season to taste with salt and pepper. Add the penne, the chopped oregano, 
onion, olives, capers, bell peppers, and cherry tomatoes. (At this point, you 
can refrigerate the pasta for up to a few hours.) T o serve, add the feta and stir 
until just combined. T aste and season with salt and pepper. Turn the pasta 
into a serving bowl and garnish with the oregano sprigs. —Joanne Weir
PER SERVING: 520 CALORIES  |  14G PROTEIN  |  49G CA RB  |  30G TOT AL FA T  |  8G SA T FA T  |   
17G MONO FA T  |  3G POL Y FA T  |  35MG CHOL  |  1,11 0MG SODIUM  |  4G FIBER
Capers are the flower buds of a prickly shrub that grows all over 
the Mediterranean. Some caper shrubs are cultivated, but most 
grow wild, and the harvesting is done by hand. Eaten raw, capers 
are bitter, but once cured, they develop an intense flavor that is 
all at once salty, sour, herbal, and slightly medicinal. If the buds 
are allowed to blossom and go to seed, they become caper 
berries, which are also packed in brine and can be added to 
salads or eaten out of hand like olives.
How to buy
Capers come in a range of sizes. The smallest size (nonpareil) is 
said by some to be the best; others prefer larger capers for their 
bolder, more interesting flavor. 
In addition to size, there’s the choice between vinegar-brined 
and salt-packed capers. Brined capers have the advantage of 
an almost indefinite shelf life, but the vinegar sharpens their 
flavor. Salted capers have a pure flavor, but they don’t last as 
long because the salt eventually pulls out all their moisture. 
Look for clean white salt; yellowing salt is a sign of age. All capers 
should be refrigerated after opening. 
How to use
Rinse brined capers before using. Salt-packed capers are too 
salty to be eaten straight from the jar; soak them in cool water 
for about 15 minutes and rinse in several changes of water. If the 
capers are large, you can chop them roughly unless you want a 
big burst of caper flavor. All about Capers