16  S TA R T E R S ,  S A L A D S  &  S O U P Sprosciutto-wrapped melon with  
mint and white balsamic vinegar
S E R V E S  8
 1  ripe cantaloupe
 2  Tbs. very thinly sliced fresh 
mint leaves
 1/2  tsp. freshly ground black  
pepper
 2  to 3 tsp. white balsamic  
vinegar
 6  oz. very thinly sliced  
prosciutto, preferably  
importedThis riff on a classic Italian hors d’oeuvre is a great way to start any 
gathering. You can assemble it up to 2 hours ahead, if you like, but the 
mint will darken a bit.
1. With a sharp knife, trim the peel from the melon. Cut it in half lengthwise and 
scoop out the seeds. Slice one of the halves lengthwise into slender wedges, 
and then cut the wedges in half crosswise. (Wrap and save the other melon 
half for another use.)
2. Put the melon wedges in a medium bowl and toss them with the mint,
pepper, and vinegar to taste—the sweeter the melon, the more vinegar you 
can use. T ear the prosciutto lengthwise into 1- to 2-inch-wide strips and wrap 
a strip or two around each piece of melon. Arrange the wrapped melon on 
a serving platter. If making ahead, cover with plastic and refrigerate until ready 
to serve.  —Jennifer Armentrout
PER SERVING: 70 CALORIES  |  7G PROTEIN  |  7G CARB  |  2.5G TOT AL FA T  |  1G SA T FA T  |  
0G MONO FA T  |  0G POL Y FA T  |  15MG CHOL  |  580MG SODIUM  |  1G FIBER
S TA R T E R S ,  S A L A D S  &  S O U P S   17involtini of roasted 
bell peppers 
M A K E S  1 5  T O  1 8  H O R S 
D ’ O E U V R E S
 3  red bell peppers, roasted, 
peeled, and seeded
   Filling (choose from list in 
sidebar below)In Italy, different involtini are 
made by rolling up slices of meat 
or thin fish fillets with a stuffing. 
Strips of roasted peppers make 
terrific involtini or “roll-ups,” filled 
with any number of delicious 
stuffings. Serve involtini as an  
appetizer with a few salad 
greens, as part of an antipasto, 
or as a savory side dish to grilled 
meat, depending on the filling. 
Cut the peppers into strips 1 to 11/2 inches wide (following the natural sections 
of the pepper, if possible) and 4 to 5 inches long (the length of the pepper). 
Each pepper will yield 5 or 6 strips. Lay the strips of pepper in a row on a 
cutting board. Put 1/2 to 1 Tbs. of prepared filling at one end of each pepper, 
then roll and arrange on a baking sheet (lined with parchment or foil, if you 
like). The involtini can be made up to this point an hour or two ahead of time. 
Cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate until ready to warm or bake, or bring to 
room temperature and serve raw. —Brian Pattersonhow to roast 
bell peppers
Roast peppers by holding them 
directly over the flame of a 
gas burner until the skins are 
charred or by putting them 
under a broiler, turning until all 
sides are well blistered. Peel off 
the skins, core, and seed, then 
use as directed in the recipe.
•  Thinly sliced prosciutto, a leaf of fresh basil, and a small cube 
of really good feta or fresh mozzarella 
•   A blend of fresh goat cheese, a little Parmesan, and fresh herbs
•   Seasoned mashed potatoes with smoked trout and a dollop of 
horseradish folded in
•   A thin anchovy fillet and a fat clove of roasted garlic
•   Lump crabmeat mixed with a small bit of crème fraîche or 
cream cheese and fresh herbs (warm through)
•   A stuffing of minced or ground lamb, beef, or chicken, mixed 
with minced olives, sun-dried tomatoes, and fresh herbs and 
bound with cheese, breadcrumbs, or egg (bake at 350°F for  
15 to 20 minutes)
•   A seafood stuffing of cooked crabmeat bound with a purée of 
raw scallops, a little heavy cream, salt, and pepper (bake at 
350°F for 15 minutes)Involtini fillings
bruschetta with grilled  
eggplant and vidalia onion
S E R V E S  6  T O  8
 1  medium eggplant (1 to 11/4 lb.)
 1  medium-large (about 12 oz.)  
Vidalia onion (or other sweet  
variety, like Texas Sweet or  
Walla Walla) 
 1/2  cup heavy cream
 4  cloves garlic, thinly sliced
 2  tsp. fresh thyme leaves, 
chopped
 1/4  cup extra-virgin olive oil; more 
for the bread  
   Kosher salt and freshly ground 
black pepper
 1/4  cup freshly grated  
Parmigiano-Reggiano 
   About 1/2 baguette, sliced 
diagonally into 1/2-inch-thick 
slicesYou can cook the eggplant on a 
stovetop grill pan with equally 
delicious results.
1. Prepare a medium-hot grill fire.
2. Trim off 1/2 inch from the top 
and bottom of the eggplant. Cut 
the eggplant lengthwise into 
1/2-inch-thick slices. Cut the  
onion crosswise into 1/2-inch-
thick slices. T o keep the onion rings together, insert toothpicks horizontally 
through the rings of each slice.
3. In a small saucepan over medium-high heat, bring the cream, garlic, and 
thyme to a boil. Reduce the heat to medium and simmer gently until the 
cream has reduced by half, 3 to 5 minutes. Remove from the heat.
4. When the grill is ready, brush the eggplant and onion slices with the 1/4 cup 
olive oil. Arrange them on the grill and cook with the lid closed until they start 
to soften and get grill marks, 2 to 3 minutes for the eggplant and 5 to 6 minutes 
for the onion. Flip and cook the other sides with the lid closed until the egg-
plant is tender and the onion is nicely charred but not necessarily fully tender, 
2 to 3 minutes more for the eggplant and 5 to 6 minutes more for the onion. 
Transfer the eggplant to a cutting board and sprinkle with 1/4 tsp. kosher salt 
and 1/4 tsp. pepper. Transfer the onion to a large sheet of foil, stack the slices, 
wrap tightly, and let rest until residual heat has softened the onion, about  
5 minutes.
5. Remove the skewers from the onion slices. Coarsely chop the eggplant 
and onion and combine in a medium bowl. Add the cream mixture and the 
Parmigiano; stir to combine. T aste and add salt and pepper as needed. Brush 
the bread slices on both sides with oil and grill until lightly golden brown,  
30 seconds to 1 minute per side. T op each slice with a generous dollop of the 
eggplant mixture. —Tony Rosenfeld
PER SERVING: 230 CALORIES  |  4G PROTEIN  |  26G CARB  |  13G TOT AL FA T  |  4.5G SA T FA T  |  
7G MONO FA T  |  1G POL Y FA T  |  20MG CHOL  |  380MG SODIUM  |  4G FIBER
 18   S TA R T E R S ,  S A L A D S  &  S O U P S