grilled sourdough panzanella
M A K E S  A B O U T  6  C U P S ;  
S E R V E S  4  T O  6
 4  1/2-inch-thick slices sourdough 
(from the center of a boule; 
about 8 oz.)
 1/2  cup extra-virgin olive oil
   Kosher salt and freshly ground 
black pepper
 1  small shallot, thinly sliced into 
rings
 3 Tbs. red-wine vinegar
 1  small clove garlic, coarsely 
chopped
 11/2  lb. ripe, meaty tomatoes,  
cut into 1/2-inch dice (about  
31/2 cups)
 1  small English cucumber, 
seeded and cut into 1/2-inch 
dice (about 11/2 cups)
 3  Tbs. chopped fresh basil
 3  Tbs. chopped fresh mint
 2  Tbs. capers, rinsedThe sharp edge of a stainless-steel serrated knife cuts through tomatoes 
quickly and easily. If you like, try a knife specifically made for slicing tomatoes.
1. Heat a gas grill with all burners on medium. Brush the bread with 1/4 cup of 
the olive oil and season it with 1/4 tsp. kosher salt and a few grinds of pepper. 
Grill the bread on both sides, checking frequently, until nicely browned,  
3 to 4 minutes per side. When the bread is cool enough to handle, cut it into  
1/2-inch cubes.
2. In a small bowl, soak the shallot in the vinegar for 10 minutes. With a slotted 
spoon, transfer the shallot to a large bowl, reserving the vinegar. Sprinkle the 
garlic with 1/4 tsp. kosher salt and mash it into a paste on a cutting board with 
the side of a chef’s knife. Whisk the mashed garlic, the remaining 1/4 cup olive 
oil, 1/4 tsp. kosher salt, and 1 / 8 tsp. pepper into the reserved vinegar.
3. T oss the bread cubes, tomatoes, cucumber, basil, mint, capers, and vinai-
grette in the bowl with the shallot. Season the panzanella to taste with kosher 
salt and pepper and serve. —Allison Ehri Kreitler
PER SERVING: 370 CALORIES  |  7G PROTEIN  |  40G CARB  |  20G TOT AL FA T  |  3G SA T FA T  |  
14G MONO FA T  |  2.5G POL Y FA T  |  0MG CHOL  |  760MG SODIUM  |  4G FIBERtuscan white bean salad
M A K E S  5  C U P S ;  S E R V E S  4
 1/4  lb. tubettini or other small 
pasta (about 1 cup dry), 
cooked 
 1   15-oz. can cannellini beans, 
rinsed and drained
 4   anchovy fillets, drained and 
chopped fine or mashed  
(optional)
 1/2   cup finely chopped red onion
 1  clove garlic, minced
 2  tsp. minced fresh rosemary
 1/2   cup coarsely chopped fresh 
parsley leaves
 1/4   cup extra-virgin olive oil
 1  Tbs. freshly squeezed  
lemon juice
   Salt and freshly ground  
black pepper
 1  can oil-packed tuna,  
preferably Italian (optional)
   Extra-virgin olive oil, for  
drizzlingChill this salad briefly before  
serving to give the flavors a 
chance to meld. 
1. Fold the tubettini and beans 
together in a large bowl; set aside. 
In a small bowl, whisk together 
the anchovies, onion, garlic, 
rosemary, parsley, olive oil, and 
lemon juice. 
2. T oss the pasta and beans with 
the dressing. Add salt and pepper 
and chill for at least 15 minutes. Just before serving, top the salad with flaked 
tuna, if you like, and drizzle with olive oil. Serve at cool room temperature.  
—Rosina Tinari Wilson
PER SERVING: 370 CALORIES  |  13G PROTEIN  |  47G CARB  |  15G TOT AL FA T  |  2G SA T FA T  |  
10G MONO FA T  |  2G POL Y FA T  |  5MG CHOL  |  290MG SODIUM  |  7G FIBER
S TA R T E R S ,  S A L A D S  &  S O U P S   23creamy tomato-basil soup
Y I E L D S  A B O U T  8  C U P S ;  
S E R V E S  6
 1  Tbs. olive oil
 1  medium onion, chopped
 6  large sprigs fresh basil, plus 
small sprigs or leaves for  
garnish
 4  lb. ripe red tomatoes, peeled, 
seeded, and chopped
 1  quart homemade or lower-salt 
chicken broth
   Kosher salt and freshly ground 
black pepper
 1  cup heavy cream
 2  tsp. balsamic vinegarSweet vine-ripened tomatoes are the key to flavor in this creamy soup. If your 
tomatoes are not at their peak of sweetness, add 1/2 tsp. sugar to the soup.
1. In a large soup pot, heat the olive oil over medium-high heat. Add the onion 
and cook, stirring occasionally, until softened, about 7 minutes. Tie the basil 
sprigs together with a piece of kitchen twine. Add the large basil sprigs, 
tomatoes, chicken broth, 11/2 tsp. salt, and 1/2 tsp. pepper to the onions. Bring  
to a boil over high heat, reduce the heat to medium low, and let simmer until 
reduced by one-quarter, about 20 minutes. Let cool. Remove the basil sprigs.
2. In a blender, purée the soup in batches until very smooth, at least 3 minutes. 
Strain the soup through a fine sieve into a clean pot and bring to a simmer over 
medium heat. Remove from the heat; stir in the cream and balsamic vinegar. 
T aste and add salt and pepper if needed. Ladle the hot soup into bowls and 
garnish with the small sprigs or leaves of basil. —Joanne Weir
PER SERVING: 180 CALORIES  |  4G PROTEIN  |  13G CARB  |  14G TOT AL FA T  |  7G SA T FA T  |  
5G MONO FA T  |  1G POL Y FA T  |  40MG CHOL  |  190MG SODIUM  |  3G FIBER
white bean soup with sautéed shrimp  
and garlic croutons
M A K E S  A B O U T  6  C U P S ;  
S E R V E S  4  A S  A  F I R S T  C O U R S E 
 11/2  cups dried cannellini beans, 
sorted through and rinsed
 5  Tbs. extra-virgin olive oil; plus 
1 Tbs. for drizzling
 1  large yellow onion, cut into  
1/4-inch dice
 1  carrot, peeled and cut into  
1/4-inch dice
 1  inner rib celery, cut into  
1/4-inch dice
   Kosher salt and freshly ground 
black pepper
 2  cloves garlic, minced
 1  Tbs. chopped fresh rosemary
 4  tsp. freshly squeezed lemon 
juice; more to taste
 21/2  cups 3/4-inch-diced country 
bread or baguette (about  
6 oz.)
 3/4  lb. large shrimp (21 to 
25 per lb.), peeled, deveined, 
rinsed, sliced in half length-
wise, and patted dry
  Pinch of cayenneEarthy rosemary is the dominant flavor in this light, mostly puréed soup. 
It complements, and perks up, the white beans.
1. Cook the cannellini beans following the Basic Beans method on the 
facing page.
2. Heat a large, heavy saucepan over medium-high heat for 30 seconds. Add 
11/2 Tbs. of the oil, along with the onion, carrot, and celery. Season with salt 
and cook, stirring occasionally, until the vegetables soften and start to brown, 
about 7 minutes. Add half the garlic and cook for 30 seconds, stirring. Add the 
beans and their cooking liquid (there should be about 4 cups liquid; if not, add 
more water to equal this amount) and half the rosemary. Season well with salt 
and pepper. 
3. Bring to a boil, lower the heat to a bare simmer, and cook for 30 minutes so 
that the beans soften a little more but don’t break up. Let cool for 10 minutes. 
Scoop out 1 cup of the beans and set aside. Working in batches, purée the 
remaining beans and all of the broth in a blender. Transfer the puréed soup 
and the reserved beans to a clean saucepan and keep warm over low heat. 
Add the lemon juice and salt and pepper to taste. Thin with water, if necessary, 
to get the consistency you like.
4. Heat a large skillet over medium-high heat for 1 minute. Add 11/2 Tbs. oil and 
the bread cubes and season well with salt and pepper. Cook, tossing frequent-
ly, until the bread starts to brown around the edges, 2 to 3 minutes. T oss in the 
remaining garlic and continue cooking for 1 minute, tossing well. Transfer to 
a large plate. Season the shrimp well with salt and pepper. Add the remaining 
2 Tbs. olive oil and the shrimp to the skillet and sauté, stirring often, until the 
shrimp is firm, opaque, and browned slightly, 3 to 4 minutes.
5. Ladle the soup into large, shallow bowls and dust with a pinch of cayenne. 
Garnish with a few of the croutons, a portion of the shrimp, a sprinkling of the 
remaining rosemary, and a drizzle of oil. —Tony Rosenfeld
PER SERVING: 730 CALORIES  |  40G PROTEIN  |  84G CARB  |  27G TOT AL FA T  |  4G SA T FA T  |  
16G MONO FA T  |  5G POL Y FA T  |  130MG CHOL  |  640MG SODIUM  |  15G FIBER
24  S TA R T E R S ,  S A L A D S  &  S O U P S