pappardelle with shrimp and zucchini
S e r v e S  2  O r  3
 2  medium zucchini, washed and 
trimmed
 3/4   lb. large shrimp, peeled, de-
veined, rinsed, and patted dry
   Kosher salt and freshly ground 
black pepper
 6  Tbs. extra-virgin olive oil
 2   cloves garlic, smashed and 
peeled
 1/2   lb. dried pappardelle
 1/4   tsp. crushed red pepper flakes
 2  tsp. freshly squeezed lemon 
juice; more to taste
 15  fresh basil leaves, torn into 
large pieces 
 21/2  oz. thinly sliced prosciutto,  
  cut crosswise into 1/2-inch- 
  wide stripsA Y-shaped peeler is perfect for making strips of zucchini; press hard to get 
thicker strips. A mandoline also works well.
1. Put a large pot of salted water on to boil. 
2. Using a vegetable peeler (preferably a sharp, Y-shaped one), gently peel 
and discard the dark green skin of the zucchini. Pressing as hard as you can, 
continue to “peel” each zucchini lengthwise to make wide strips about 1 / 8 inch 
thick, rotating the zucchini as you go. Discard the squared-off seed cores. 
3. In a large skillet over high heat, sauté the shrimp, seasoned with salt and 
pepper, in 11/2 Tbs. oil until firm and pink, 2 to 3 minutes. Transfer the shrimp 
to a plate. Lower the heat to medium, add the remaining 41/2 Tbs. oil and the 
garlic, and cook, swirling the pan, until the garlic browns and the oil is fragrant, 
2 to 3 minutes. 
4. Put the pasta in the water.
5. Transfer all but 1 Tbs. of the oil to a small bowl. Raise the heat under the 
skillet to high, add the pepper flakes, and pile in the zucchini strips. Season 
with salt and pepper and sauté until the strips begin to soften (but don’t let 
them turn mushy), 1 to 2 minutes. Discard the garlic cloves. 
6. Finish cooking the pappardelle until it’s just tender, about 5 minutes total. 
Drain and add to the shrimp, along with the zucchin i, lemon juice, and reserved 
garlic oil. T oss gently. Stir in the basil and the prosciutto, taste for salt and 
pepper, and serve immediately. —T ony Rosenfeld
PER SERVING: 650 CALORIES  |  34G PROTEIN  |  55G CA RB  |  32G TOT AL FA T  |  5G SA T FA T  |   
22G MONO FA T  |  3G POL Y FA T  |  155MG CHOL  |  1,5 20MG SODIUM  |  3G FIBERspaghetti with spicy shrimp, 
cherry tomatoes & herbed 
breadcrumbs
S e r v e S  4
 1 / 3   cup plus 4 Tbs. extra-virgin 
olive oil
 1   Tbs. plus 2 tsp. chopped fresh 
flat-leaf parsley
 2  tsp. chopped fresh chives
   Heaping 1/4    tsp. crushed red 
pepper flakes
  Pinch of cayenne
 1/2      tsp. kosher salt; more as 
needed
 1  lb. raw shrimp (21 to 25 per lb.), 
peeled, deveined, and cut 
crosswise into quarters 
 1/4      cup coarse fresh breadcrumbs 
(made from a baguette or 
other artisan bread)
 1  Tbs. chopped fresh mint
   Freshly ground black pepper
 2  medium shallots, finely 
chopped
 1  lb. dried thin spaghetti
 4  cups cherry or grape tomatoes 
(2 pints), halvedFresh mint adds a bright, 
unexpected twist to this light, 
summery pasta.
1. In a large bowl, combine 2 Tbs. 
of the olive oil, 2 tsp. of the parsley, 
the chives, red pepper flakes, 
cayenne, and salt. Add the 
shrimp and stir to coat evenly. Cover the bowl with plastic and marinate in the 
refrigerator for about 20 minutes.
2. Bring a large pot of well-salted water to a boil over high heat. 
3. In a small sauté pan, heat 2 Tbs. of the olive oil over medium heat. Add the 
breadcrumbs and cook, stirring frequently, until li ghtly browned, 1 to 3 minutes. 
Transfer to a small bowl and let cool. Mix the remaining 1 Tbs. parsley, the mint, 
a grinding of pepper, and a pinch of salt into the breadcrumbs. 
4. Heat the remaining 1 / 3 cup olive oil in a 12-inch skillet over medium heat. 
When the oil is hot, add the shallots and cook, stirring occasionally, until lightly 
browned, 2 to 4 minutes.
5. Put the spaghetti in the boiling water and cook until just shy of al dente, 
about 5 minutes. 
6. While the spaghetti cooks, add the shrimp and halv ed tomatoes to the skillet. 
Season with salt and pepper and cook, stirring frequently, until the tomatoes 
start to soften and the shrimp is nearly cooked through, about 5 minutes. 
7. Reserve 1/2    cup of the pasta cooking water and drain the spaghetti. Return 
the pasta and 2 Tbs. of the reserved water to the pot. Add the shrimp mixture 
and toss over medium heat until the shrimp is cooked through and the spa-
ghetti is perfectly al dente, 1 to 2 minutes more. Add more of the pasta water 
as necessary to keep the dish moist. Season to taste with salt and pepper, 
transfer to warm shallow bowls, and top each serving with the breadcrumbs. 
—Scott Conant
PER SERVING: 830 CALORIES  |  35G PROTEIN  |  93G CA RB  |  35G TOT AL FA T  |  5G SA T FA T  |  
23G MONO FA T  |  4.5G POL Y FA T  |  170MG CHOL  |  4 60MG SODIUM  |  6G FIBER
142  P A S TApasta puttanesca
S e r v e S  4
  Kosher salt
 3  Tbs. extra-virgin olive oil
 4  large cloves garlic, minced
 3  oil-packed anchovy fillets, 
finely chopped (scant 1 Tbs.)
 1/4    tsp. crushed red pepper flakes
 1  28-oz. can crushed tomatoes 
 1   lb. dried spaghetti
 1/2      cup pitted brine-cured black 
olives, such as Kalamata, 
coarsely chopped
 2  Tbs. nonpareil capers, rinsed 
and drained
 1  Tbs. chopped fresh oregano or 
marjoram
   Freshly ground black pepperMany of the ingredients for this classic flavor-packed pasta may already be in 
your pantry, making this a perfect weeknight meal.
1. Bring a large pot of well-salted water to a boil over high heat. 
2. Meanwhile, heat 1 Tbs. of the olive oil with the garlic in a 3-quart saucepan 
over medium heat. Cook, stirring frequently, until the garlic is sizzling, about 
2 minutes. Add the anchovies and red pepper flakes and cook, stirring 
frequently, until the garlic is very pale golden, 1 to 2 minutes more. Stir in the 
tomatoes. Increase the heat to medium high, bring to a boil, and then reduce 
the heat to medium low and simmer, stirring occasionally, until the sauce is 
slightly thickened, 8 to 10 minutes.
3. After adding the tomatoes to the pan, add the pasta to the boiling water and 
cook according to the package directions until al dente.
4. When the tomato sauce is ready, add the olives, cap ers, and oregano or mar-
joram and stir. Simmer until just heated through, about 2 minutes. Stir in the 
remaining 2 Tbs. olive oil and season the sauce to taste with salt and pepper.
5. When the pasta is ready, reserve 1/2    cup of the cooking water and drain well. 
Return the pasta to the pot, set it over medium-low heat, pour in the sauce, 
and toss, adding cooking water as needed for the sauce to coat the pasta. 
Serve immediately. —Dawn Yanagihara
PER SERVING: 720 CALORIES  |  30G PROTEIN  |  103G C ARB  |  22G TOT AL FA T  |  3.5G SA T FA T  |  
13G MONO FA T  |  3.5G POL Y FA T  |  30MG CHOL  |  2, 590MG SODIUM  |  10G FIBER
P A S TA   143