spaghetti alla carbonara  
S e r v e S  2
  Kosher salt
 1   Tbs. extra-virgin olive oil
 1/4   lb. fatty pancetta or guanciale, 
sliced 1/4 inch thick and cut into 
11/2- by 1/2-inch rectangles
   Freshly ground black pepper
 1/2   cup diced red onion
 2  large eggs, chilled
 1/2   lb. dried spaghetti
 1/2   cup lightly packed, freshly 
grated Parmigiano-reggianoT o make this pasta for four 
people, double the recipe, but 
transfer the pasta back into the 
pot used for cooking it and then 
toss it with the eggs and cheese.
1. Bring a large pot of well-salted 
water to a boil over high heat.
2. In a 10-inch skillet, heat the 
olive oil over medium heat. Add 
the pancetta or guanciale and 
1/2 tsp. pepper and cook, stirring 
occasionally, until golden and beginning to crisp, about 5 minutes. (If the meat 
is browning too quickly, reduce the heat to medium low.) Add the onion and 
continue to cook until it’s soft and golden and the meat is crisp, about another 
5 minutes.
3. Remove the pan from the heat and carefully spoon off all but about 2 Tbs. of 
the fat. Add 1 Tbs. water to the pan and scrape any brown bits from the bottom.
4. Beat the eggs in a small bowl until smooth and set aside.
5. Cook the spaghetti in the boiling water according to package directions 
until it’s just shy of al dente. Reserve ¼ cup of the cooking water and drain the 
spaghetti. Transfer the spaghetti to the skillet, set it over medium heat, and 
toss with tongs to coat the spaghetti with the fat and finish cooking to al dente, 
about 1 minute. If the pasta is too dry or starts to stick to the bottom of the pan, 
add 1 or 2 tsp. of the pasta water. You want the bottom of the pan to be just 
barely wet. If the pan is too dry, the eggs will scramble when you add them.
6. Remove the skillet from the heat and pour the eggs over the pasta, tossing 
quickly and continuously until the eggs thicken and turn to the consistency of 
a thin custard, 30 seconds to 1 minute. (T ossing constantly is important, as it 
prevents the eggs from scrambling.)
7. The sauce should be smooth and creamy, and it should cling to the pasta. 
Add a little more pasta water if necessary to loosen the sauce. Stir in the 
Parmigiano and season to taste with salt and pepper (you may not need 
additional salt, as both guanciale and pancetta can be very salty). Serve 
immediately. —Steve Connaughton
PER SERVING: 810 CALORIES  |  34G PROTEIN  |  89G CA RB  |  34G TOT AL FA T  |  10G SA T FA T  |   
15G MONO FA T  |  4.5G POL Y FA T  |  255MG CHOL  |  1 ,530MG SODIUM  |  6G FIBER
118  P A S TA
carbonara  
know-how
Add pasta water to the pan to keep the 
pasta from sticking. 
Pour the eggs over the pasta and keep 
tossing until the eggs thicken into a 
custard-like consistency.
In Italy, spaghetti alla carbonara is made with gua nciale (gwan-
CHA-leh)—cured, air-dried pork that’s similar to pa ncetta. 
Pancetta comes from the belly of the pig, while gua nciale is made 
from the jowl and has a stronger flavor and more de licate texture. 
Guanciale can be hard to find, but you can order it  online.What Is Guanciale?PASTA  119orecchiette with peas, arugula 
& prosciutto
S e r v e S  4  T O  6
 1  lb. dried orecchiette or penne
 1  lb. arugula (about 4 small 
bunches)
 4  Tbs. unsalted butter
 3  cloves garlic, minced
 1  lb. fresh english peas, shelled 
(pods discarded or saved for 
vegetable stock), or 1 cup 
frozen peas, thawed 
   Kosher salt and freshly ground 
black pepper 
 3  Tbs. olive oil
 10  thin slices prosciutto, diced 
(6 to 7 ounces)
 2  Tbs. freshly squeezed lemon 
juice
 1/4      cup freshly grated 
Parmigiano-reggiano; plus 
3/4    cup shavings, for garnish 
 2  Tbs. chopped fresh flat-leaf 
parsleyPuglia’s traditional ear-shaped 
pasta makes a perfect cradle for 
the peas. 
1. Bring a pot of well-salted water 
to a boil over high heat. Boil 
the orecchiette following the 
package directions.
2. Meanwhile, trim, wash, and 
thoroughly dry the arugula; 
chop it coarsely and set aside. In a large saucepan over medium heat, melt 
the butter. Add the garlic and sauté until barely golden, about 2 minutes. Add 
the peas and sauté until crisp-tender, another 3 to 4 minutes if using fresh 
or 1 minute if using thawed frozen. Season lightly with salt and pepper. With a 
slotted spoon, remove the peas and garlic from the pan and set aside. Leave 
as much liquid in the pan as possible and add the olive oil to the pan. Add 
the prosciutto and cook until very lightly browned, about 5 minutes. Add the 
arugula in batches, stirring and adding handfuls as it wilts. Stir in the lemon 
juice. Cook just until all the greens have wilted.
3. When the orecchiette is done, reserve 1 cup of the cooking water and drain 
the pasta. In a large bowl, toss the orecchiette with the peas, prosciutto, 
arugula, and grated Parmigiano, along with 1/2    cup of the reserved cooking 
water. Season with more ground pepper; toss. T aste and adjust the seasonings 
if needed. If the pasta seems dry, toss with more of the reserved cooking 
water. T o serve, garnish each portion with the parsley and the Parmigiano 
shavings. —Ali Edwards
PER SERVING: 620 CALORIES  |  30G PROTEIN  |  60G CA RB  |  28G TOT AL FA T  |  12G SA T FA T  |  
11G MONO FA T  |  2G POL Y FA T  |  70MG CHOL  |  2,17 5MG SODIUM  |  5G FIBER
“Bacon makes everything better.” That’s one of our favorite 
sayings in the Fine Cooking  test kitchen, and it helps explain 
why our recipes frequently call for it, or for its Italian cousin, 
pancetta. While both are made from pork bellies, the difference 
is that bacon is brined and then smoked, while pancetta is dry 
cured with salt and pepper and is not smoked. 
Most people should have ready access to bacon in its various 
forms—thin- or thick-sliced or slab (unsliced). Pancetta is often 
available either in your deli or near the packaged deli meats. 
Bacon can be used in place of pancetta—just blanch it in 
boiling water first to reduce its smoky flavor. Unused bacon and 
pancetta freeze well; wrap a few slices together in individual 
packets so it’s easy to thaw only the amount you need.Pancetta and Bacon
Pancetta
Bacon