How to choose
At the market, look for eggplant with smooth, 
shiny skin that’s unwrinkled. The fruit should feel 
firm and spring back slightly when you touch it. 
Try to find an eggplant with a stem that looks 
moist, as if recently cut.
How to prep
Eggplant is one vegetable for which slight 
undercooking will not work. It must be com-pletely cooked through until it’s meltingly soft, 
smooth, and creamy; only then will it be flavorful 
on its own, as well as receptive to the other 
flavors with which you’ll blend it. 
How to store
It’s best to use eggplant when it’s very fresh, but 
it will keep for 2 or 3 days in the crisper drawer of 
the refrigerator.All about Eggplant
Though it is treated like a vegetable, eggplant (a member of the 
nightshade family along with tomatoes and potatoes) is actually a 
giant berry.
Western, or globe, eggplant is the most common and versatile 
variety, and you can find it year-round, though in most parts of 
the country, the peak season is late summer. Though it needs 
a little preparation, the reward is a succulent, silky treat. The 
globe eggplant’s larger size enables you to get slices and chunks. 
It varies in size from 3/4 to 1 1/4 lb., with dark purple skin. A fresh 
globe eggplant has pale pulp with a few noticeable seeds, which 
darken and become bitter as the eggplant matures. Eggplant 
with parts of dark, hardened pulp and lots of dark seeds will be a 
disappointment—these parts must be removed; otherwise, the 
flavor and the texture of the finished dish will suffer.
Globe eggplant, whose flesh is especially spongelike, tends to soak up more oil than other 
varieties. If you’ve ever brushed a raw, unsalted slice with oil, you’ve probably noticed how readily the 
eggplant absorbs it. Salting draws out water and helps collapse the air pockets in globe eggplant’s 
spongy flesh. This makes the eggplant much less able to soak up lots of oil during frying or grilling.
Eggplant varieties other than globe are worth seeking out. All have tender flesh and seeds and 
none need peeling (unless you’re roasting and puréeing them for a dip). These varieties don’t absorb 
as much oil as globe eggplant, nor are they bitter:
• Italian eggplant  is smaller than the globe variety. It’s lobed, with dark purple skin and green leaves.
• Chinese eggplant  is elongated, slender, and has light purple skin. It’s quick-cooking, which makes 
it a good candidate for stir-frying.
• Japanese eggplant  is also elongated, slender, and quick-cooking. This variety has dark purple skin. 
Its brownish leaves distinguish it from the Italian eggplant.
• White eggplant  is oval, with a beautiful eggshell-white hue; one look will tell you how eggplant 
earned its name. The flesh is especially creamy and is less bitter than darker-hued eggplant.
• Southeast Asian eggplant  is the size of a cherry tomato, green-striped or purple. It’s quite bitter 
and best for pickling.
178  M A I N  C O U R S E Scontinued from p. 177M A I N  C O U R S E S   179braised red snapper puttanesca
SE R V E S  4
 4  5-oz. skinless red snapper 
fillets (about 3/4 inch thick)  
   Kosher salt and freshly ground 
black pepper 
 3  Tbs. extra-virgin olive oil 
 3  medium cloves garlic, minced 
(about 1 Tbs.) 
 2  141/2-oz. cans petite-diced 
tomatoes 
 2  anchovy fillets, minced 
 1/2   cup pitted Kalamata  
olives, halved lengthwise 
(about 3 oz.) 
 3  Tbs. coarsely chopped fresh 
basil leaves 
 1  Tbs. capers, rinsed 
 1/4  tsp. crushed red pepper flakes 
 1  Tbs. coarsely chopped fresh 
mint 
 2  tsp. red-wine vinegar Black sea bass makes a good substitute for snapper in this recipe. Serve with 
polenta or couscous.
1. Position a rack in the center of the oven and heat the oven to 325°F . Season 
the snapper all over with salt and pepper. Let sit at room temperature while 
you prepare the sauce.
2. Heat 2 Tbs. of the olive oil in a 12-inch ovenproof skillet over medium-low 
heat. Add the garlic and cook, stirring, until softened but not golden, about  
1 minute. Add the tomatoes and their juice, anchovies, olives, 2 Tbs. of the 
basil, capers, and pepper flakes to the pan. Bring the sauce to a brisk simmer 
and cook, stirring occasionally, until the tomatoes are tender and the juices 
have reduced to a saucy consistency, about 8 minutes.
3. Nestle the snapper fillets into the sauce, spooning some on top to keep the 
fish moist. Drizzle with the remaining 1 Tbs. olive oil. Tightly cover the pan with 
a lid or aluminum foil and braise in the oven until the fish is almost cooked 
through, 10 to 15 minutes depending on thickness.
4. With a slotted spatula, transfer the snapper to 4 shallow serving bowls. If the 
sauce seems too thin, simmer over medium-high heat until thickened to your 
liking. Stir the remaining 1 Tbs. basil and the mint and vinegar into the sauce 
and spoon it over the fish. —Allison Ehri Kreitler
PER SERVING: 320 CALORIES  |  31G PROTEIN  |  12G CA RB  |  17G TOT AL FA T  |  2.5G SA T FA T  |   
12G MONO FA T  |  2.5G POL Y FA T  |  50MG CHOL  |  1, 360MG SODIUM  |  0G FIBER
Black Bean Soup  
with Sweet Potatoes  
(recipe on page 5)
barley risotto with  
mushrooms and gremolata  
(recipe on p. 192)&polenta
risotto
creamy polenta  p. 182 
goat cheese polenta  p. 182
polenta lasagna  p. 183
gorgonzola polenta  p. 184
polenta pudding  p. 184
gratin of polenta with greens  
p. 185
risotto of sweet sausage and  
broccoli raab  p. 186
risotto alla milanese  p. 188
risotto with corn, spicy sausage &  
wilted arugula  p. 190barley risotto with mushrooms 
and gremolata  p. 192  
artichoke risotto with lemon  
and parsley  p. 194
risotto with peas, mint, &  
lemon  p. 196
butternut squash risotto with 
bacon and sage  p. 197
saffron and shrimp risotto with 
scallions  p. 198
parsnip risotto with pancetta  
and sage  p. 200