green beans and radicchio with 
shaved parmigiano
SER V E S  4
 21/2   Tbs. extra-virgin olive oil
 12  oz. slender green beans, ends 
trimmed, and long beans 
snapped in half
 1  medium yellow onion, halved 
and thinly sliced 
   Kosher salt and freshly ground 
black pepper
 3  cups 1/2-inch strips radicchio 
(about 6 oz.) 
 1  large clove garlic, minced
 1  Tbs. freshly squeezed lemon 
juice
   Shavings of Parmigiano- 
Reggiano, for garnishPeppery radicchio takes on 
a pleasant, nutty flavor when 
browned. If you can’t find slender 
green beans, cook bigger ones 
for an extra 2 minutes before 
adding the radicchio. Use a sharp 
vegetable peeler to make shav-
ings of Parmigiano.
Heat a large (12-inch) skillet 
over medium-high heat for 
1 minute. Pour in 2 Tbs. of the oil and swirl to coat the pan. As soon as the 
oil is shimmering—but not smoking—add the green beans in an even layer 
across the pan. Scatter the onion slices on top. Season with salt and pepper 
and let cook undisturbed for 2 minutes. Add the radicchio and sauté, 
stirring occasionally, until the radicchio has begun to wilt and brown and the 
green beans are crisp-tender, about another 6 minutes. If the vegetables 
seem to be cooking too fast or the pan bottom is starting to burn, lower the 
heat to medium. (If using an electric stovetop, take the pan off the burner 
momentarily to let the pan cool.) Stir in the garlic, cooking for about another 
minute to blend in the flavor. Transfer to a serving bowl. Drizzle with the lemon 
juice and the remaining 1/2 Tbs. oil; toss gently. Season to taste with salt and 
pepper, garnish with the Parmigiano shavings, and serve immediately. 
—Mary Ellen Driscoll
PER SERVING: 160 CALORIES  |  6G PROTEIN  |  11G CAR B  |  11G TOT AL FA T  |  3G SA T FA T  |   
7G MONO FA T  |  1G POL Y FA T  |  5MG CHOL  |  390MG SODIUM  |  4G FIBER
S I D E S   205Radicchio is a type of leafy chicory known for its 
spicy, bitter taste. There are many types of 
radicchio: tight, round, magenta-colored heads of 
rossa di Verona, elongated rossa di Treviso, and 
the more unusual rosettes of red-, green-, and 
yellow-spotted Castelfranco. All these varieties 
share leaves with a dense, crisp texture and a 
bittersweet flavor that’s delicious raw or cooked. 
Although you’ll find chicories in the market 
year-round, they develop their best flavor in the 
fall and winter. Cool weather enhances their 
sweetness and intensifies their color.
How to choose 
When buying, inspect the stem ends. They should 
be white, with no more than a trace of browning.How to prep
Clean radicchio gently. Discard wilted outer leaves 
and wipe the heads with a damp towel. Cut out 
the core from the bottom and peel off the leaves 
one by one.
When you cook radicchio, it mellows deliciously, 
becoming almost another vegetable entirely. Cut 
it in half, rinse and drain it thoroughly, brush it with 
olive oil, and throw it right on the grill.
How to store
After you buy radicchio, you can store it in the 
refrigerator for several days, wrapped loosely in a 
damp towel.What Is Radicchio?gratin of sautéed cauliflower, tomato,  
pine nuts & saffron
SER V E S  5
 1/4   cup pine nuts
 4  slices firm white sandwich 
bread, toasted and crusts 
trimmed 
 6  Tbs. olive oil
 2  Tbs. chopped fresh flat-leaf 
parsley 
 1  small head cauliflower (about 
2 lb.), cut into medium florets 
(about 3/4 inch at the widest 
point) 
   Coarse salt and freshly ground 
black pepper 
 1  medium onion, chopped
 1  large pinch saffron (about  
25 threads)
 1  cup canned crushed tomatoes
 1/4   cup dried currantsInspired by the flavors of Sicily, this side dish is our answer to the usual  
smothered-in-cheese gratin. Serve with braised lamb and a simple,  
hearty salad. 
1. In a small, dry skillet, toast the pine nuts over medium-low heat, shaking the 
pan frequently, until fragrant and lightly toasted, about 2 minutes. Transfer to 
a small bowl.
2. T ear the toasted bread slices into bite-size pieces and put them in a food 
processor. Process until you have coarse crumbs, about 30 seconds. Transfer 
to a small bowl, drizzle with 3 Tbs. of the olive oil, mix well, and toss with 1 Tbs. 
of the chopped parsley.
3. Heat the oven to 375°F . In a 12-inch skillet (preferably ovenproof), heat 
2 Tbs. of the olive oil over medium heat. Add the cauliflower and sauté until it 
begins to soften, about 5 minutes. Season with salt and pepper and continue 
sautéing until the cauliflower is deep golden brown and tender but still firm,  
7 to 10 minutes. Transfer the cauliflower to a small bowl.
4. Add the remaining 1 Tbs. olive oil to the skillet, still over medium heat. Add 
the onion and sauté until golden brown, 5 to 8 minutes. Add the saffron and 
stir to combine. Add the tomatoes and currants and simmer over medium-
low heat until the sauce thickens and the currants plump, about 5 minutes. 
Remove from the heat and fold in the cauliflower, pine nuts, and remaining  
1 Tbs. parsley. If the skillet isn’t ovenproof, transfer the mixture to a 9x9-inch 
shallow baking dish or a medium gratin dish.
5. Sprinkle the cauliflower with the breadcrumbs. Bake to heat through and 
meld flavors, 15 to 20 minutes. Serve hot. —Peter Hoffman
PER SERVING: 330 CALORIES  |  9G PROTEIN  |  34G CAR B  |  21G TOT AL FA T  |  3G SA T FA T  | 
14G MONO FA T  |  4G POL Y FA T  |  0MG CHOL  |  430MG  SODIUM  |  8G FIBER
206  S I D E Show to cut  
cauliflower
For many cooks, cauliflower’s awkward 
shape can pose a challenge. This, too, 
has a solution. After trimming back the 
leaves, use the tip of a small chef’s knife 
(a sturdy, sharp paring knife will also do) 
to cut around the main stem and free as 
many large branches as possible. Then 
follow the growth pattern along the stem 
of each floret, severing smaller branches 
as opposed to just slicing through the 
floret. Don’t cut directly through the 
“flower.”—instead, preserve the natural, 
curving form of the florets by cutting 
through the stem part of the buds and 
then snapping them apart. 
