orzo with shiitakes,  
caramelized onions & spinach
SE R V E S  8  T O  1 0  AS  A S I D E D I S H 
  K osher salt 
 3  Tbs. soy sauce
 1  Tbs. rice vinegar
 1  tsp. toasted sesame oil
 5  Tbs. peanut oil
 2  cloves garlic, smashed
 1  Tbs. grated fresh ginger
   Pinch crushed red pepper 
flakes
 6  oz. fresh shiitake mushrooms, 
stemmed, cleaned, and thinly 
sliced
 2  Tbs. dry sherry (or dry white 
wine)
   Freshly ground black pepper
 1  large yellow onion, finely diced 
 10  oz. spinach, stemmed, 
washed, and coarsely chopped
 1  lb. dried orzo
 2  scallions (white and green 
parts), thinly sliced 
 1  tsp. toasted sesame seeds 
(optional)
 1  lime, cut into small wedgesWe made a variation of this 
side dish when I worked in the 
kitchen at L’Espalier restaurant 
in Boston, where I learned that 
orzo pairs wonderfully with Asian 
flavors.
1. Bring a large pot of well-salted 
water to a boil. In a small bowl, 
whisk together the soy sauce, 
rice vinegar, sesame oil, and  
2 Tbs. of the peanut oil. 
2. Set a large skillet or wok over medium-high heat. When the pan is hot, pour 
in 11/2 Tbs. of the peanut oil and, after a few seconds, add the garlic, ginger, and 
pepper flakes. Stir for 20 seconds, making sure the garlic doesn’t burn. Add 
the mushrooms and stir-fry until they soften, 2 to 3 minutes. Add the sherry 
and cook for another 30 seconds. Season with salt and pepper and transfer 
the mixture to a bowl. Reduce the heat to medium, heat the remaining 
11/2 Tbs. oil in the pan, and add the onion. Season with salt and then sauté, 
stirring often, until soft and slightly caramelized, 9 to 10 minutes. Add the spin-
ach, cover the pan, and steam, shaking the pan occasionally, until the spinach 
wilts, about 3 minutes. Remove and discard the garlic from the mushrooms, 
put the mushrooms back in the pan, and toss. Remove from the heat and 
season lightly with salt and pepper. Reserve until needed. 
3. Cook the orzo in the boiling water until it’s just tender, about 9 minutes. 
Drain it well and put it in a large bowl. Add the mushroom mixture, soy vin-
aigrette, scallions, and sesame seeds (if using) and toss. T aste and season. 
Serve hot, warm, or at room temperature, with lime wedges to squeeze over 
the pasta.  —T ony Rosenfeld
PER SERVING: 260 CALORIES  |  8G PROTEIN  |  40G CAR B  |  8G TOT AL FA T  |  1G SA T FA T  |   
3G MONO FA T  |  3G POL Y FA T  |  0MG CHOL  |  450MG SODIUM  |  3G FIBER
84  P A S TAUnless the leaves are very young, spinach should be stemmed by 
pulling or cutting the center rib from the leaf. Rinse well by swishing 
in a large bowl of cool water; lift the leaves from the water rather 
than pouring through a colander. Very gritty leaves may need a 
couple of changes of water to be thoroughly cleaned. Even spinach 
labeled “prewashed” needs at least one rinse to eliminate all grit.fresh zucchini lasagne
SE R V E S  8
FOR THE BéCHAMEL
 3  Tbs. unsalted butter
 3  Tbs. unbleached  
all-purpose flour
 11/2  cups milk
 1/2  tsp. kosher salt
FOR THE FILLING AND ASSEMBLY
 1  Tbs. plus 1 tsp. unsalted butter
 2  to 3 Tbs. extra-virgin olive oil
 2  medium onions (12 to 14 oz. 
total), halved and sliced thin 
lengthwise
 2  to 3 tsp. kosher salt
 2  lb. fresh zucchini (6 or 7), 
trimmed and cut lengthwise 
into 1/4-inch-thick slices 
 4  sheets Delverde Instant 
Lasagna Ondine (each sheet 
approximately 8 by 6 inches) 
 4  oz. fresh mozzarella packed in 
water, drained and sliced 
 1/2  to 3/4 cup freshly grated 
Parmigiano-ReggianoThis recipe calls for Delverde ® ondine lasagna noodles. These are light and 
delicate “no-boil” noodles. You’ll get the best results, however, if you follow 
this method, which calls for a brief boiling before assembly. If instead you use 
fresh pasta, drop the lasagna noodles into boiling water, a few at a time, and 
cook for 30 seconds. Drain and refresh under cold running water to stop the 
cooking process and to prevent the noodles from sticking together. Follow the 
same instructions for assembling and baking. 
MAKE THE BéCHAMEL
Melt the butter in a heavy saucepan over low heat. Add the flour and stir with 
a wooden spoon until the mixture is smooth. Continue to stir until the mixture 
has bubbled for 2 minutes. T ake care not to allow the flour to brown. Very 
slowly, pour the milk into the flour-butter mixture, stirring constantly. When all 
the milk is incorporated, bring the mixture to a boil, reduce the heat, and sim-
mer for about 5 minutes, or until the béchamel has thickened to the consis-
tency of thick cream. Stir in the salt, remove from the heat, and set aside. It will 
thicken as it cools. (You can make the béchamel several hours to a day ahead; 
cool it before refrigerating. If you do make it in advance, reheat it very slowly.) 
If the béchamel is not a pourable consistency, add a little more milk. 
MAKE THE FILLING
1. Heat the oven to 450°F . Heat 1 tsp. butter and 1 Tbs. olive oil in a large skillet. 
Add the onion and 1/2 tsp. salt and sauté over medium heat, without browning, 
until the onions are very soft, 20 to 25 minutes. Set aside.
2. With a pastry brush, lightly coat 1 or 2 baking sheets with olive oil. Put the 
zucchini slices on the sheets in a single layer, brush with some of the remain-
ing olive oil, sprinkle with 1/2 tsp. salt, and roast for 20 to 25 minutes, or until 
tender and cooked through. Rotate the sheet if the zucchini seems to be 
browning unevenly. If you need to use more than one sheet, you can use both 
the upper and lower oven racks and rotate the sheets halfway through roast-
ing. The zucchini slices should be tender. Don’t worry if the zucchini browns a 
bit; it will add a nice flavor to the finished lasagne.
ASSEMBLE THE LASAGNE
Lower the oven temperature to 375°F . Bring 5 quarts. water to a boil and add 
the remaining salt. Drop the noodles into the boiling water and cook them for 
about 3 minutes, until the pasta is soft and pliable. Drain and lay them out on  
a damp dishtowel. Drizzle 3 Tbs. of the béchamel on the bottom of an 8- or 
9-inch-square baking pan. Dot with butter. Cover with a lasagna noodle, 3 Tbs. 
béchamel, and one-third each of the zucchini slices, sautéed onions, and 
mozzarella. Sprinkle with a quarter of the Parmigiano-Reggiano. Repeat with 
two more layers of these ingredients. T op with the last noodle, coat it with 
the remaining béchamel, dot with butter, and sprinkle with the remaining  
Parmigiano-Reggiano. Loosely cover the lasagne with foil and bake for 10 min- 
utes. Uncover and bake for an additional 15 to 20 minutes, until the top is 
golden and the filling is hot and bubbling. Allow the lasagne to cool for 5 to  
7 minutes before cutting and serving. —Johanne Killeen and George Germon
P A S TA   85