rotini with spiced tomato and  
black olive meat sauce
S e r v e S  4
 2  Tbs. extra-virgin olive oil
 2  cloves garlic, minced
 1/4   tsp. crushed red pepper flakes
 3/4   lb. ground beef (85% lean) 
 1/2   tsp. ground cinnamon
   Kosher salt and freshly ground 
black pepper
 3/4  lb. dried rotini
 1   28-oz. can whole peeled  
tomatoes
 1/2  tsp. sugar
 1 / 3   cup pitted Kalamata olives, 
quartered lengthwise 
 1 / 3   cup packed chopped fresh 
flat-leaf parsleyKalamatas are Greek olives named for their geographic region of produc-
tion; they’re great for both eating and cooking. Medium-size with thick flesh, 
Kalamatas have a wonderfully intense but not overly strong flavor. 
1. Put a large pot of salted water on to boil. 
2. Heat the oil, garlic, and pepper flakes in a large saucepan over medium heat. 
When the garlic is fragrant but not browned, about 1 minute, add the beef  
and cinnamon and season generously with salt and pepper. Cook the beef, 
using a large spoon to break it into small pieces, until it’s evenly browned, 3 to 
4 minutes.
3. Put the pasta in the water.
4. Pour the tomatoes and their juice into the saucepan, lower the heat to 
medium, and cook for 5 minutes, using the spoon to break them into smaller 
pieces. Stir in the sugar, the olives, and all but 2 Tbs. of the parsley. T aste for 
salt and pepper and keep the sauce warm over low heat.
5. Finish cooking the rotini until it’s just tender, about 8 minutes total. Drain 
and add to the meat sauce. Cook together, stirring well, for 1 minute. Serve im-
mediately, sprinkled with the remaining 2 Tbs. parsley. —T ony Rosenfeld
PER SERVING: 640 CALORIES  |  29G PROTEIN  |  75G CA RB  |  24G TOT AL FA T  |  7G SA T FA T  |   
13G MONO FA T  |  2G POL Y FA T  |  55MG CHOL  |  1,01 0MG SODIUM  |  5G FIBERlamb shank and sweet pepper 
ragù over pappardelle
M A K e S  6  T O  7  C U P S  r A G ù ; 
S e r v e S  8  T O  1 0
 1  28-oz. can Italian plum  
tomatoes, preferably San 
Marzano
 4  lb. lamb shanks (about 2 large 
or 3 medium), trimmed of 
excess fat
   Kosher salt and freshly ground 
black pepper
 1/2   cup unbleached all-purpose 
flour
 1/2   cup extra-virgin olive oil
 1   medium yellow onion, finely 
chopped (about 11/2 cups)
 2  medium cloves garlic, finely 
chopped
 1  bay leaf
   Pinch of crushed red pepper 
flakes 
 2  medium red bell peppers, 
seeded and cut into small dice 
(about 21/2 cups)
 1  cup dry white wine
 3/4   to 1 1/2 cups homemade or  
lower-salt beef broth
 2  lb. pappardelleThe broad, flat ribbons of pap-
pardelle are a great match for 
this hearty red sauce.
1. Position a rack in the center of 
the oven and heat the oven to 
300°F .
2. Purée the tomatoes and their 
juice in a food processor until 
smooth. Using a spatula or the 
back of a ladle, press the purée through a medium-mesh sieve set over a bowl 
to remove the seeds.
3. Pat the lamb shanks dry with paper towels and season generously with salt 
and pepper. Spread the flour in a wide, shallow dish and dredge the shanks 
lightly in the flour.
4. Heat ¼ cup of the oil in a 7- to 8-quart Dutch oven over medium-high heat. 
Add the shanks and cook, turning a few times, until they are golden brown on 
all sides, 8 to 10 minutes. Transfer the shanks to a large plate, discard the fat, 
and clean the pan with paper towels.
5. Heat the remaining ¼ cup oil in the pan over medium heat. Add the onion 
and cook, stirring frequently, until it’s pale gold and soft, about 5 minutes. Add 
the garlic, bay leaf, and pepper flakes, stir for about 1 minute, and add the bell 
peppers. Cook, stirring frequently, until the peppers begin to color and soften 
a little, 4 to 5 minutes.
6. Return the shanks to the pan and stir them around with the pepper mixture. 
Increase the heat to high, add the wine, and stir until the wine is reduced 
approximately by half, 1 to 2 minutes. Add the tomatoes, 3/4 cup of broth, and  
1/2 tsp. salt. Stir until the liquid begins to simmer.
7. Turn off the heat, cover the pan tightly with a lid or heavy-duty aluminum 
foil, and put it in the oven. Cook, turning the shanks every half hour or so, until 
the meat begins to fall off the bone, 2 to 2 1/2 hours.
8. Cook the pasta according to the package instructions. (If using fresh, cook 
in boiling, salted water for 4 to 6 minutes, until al dente.)
9. Remove the pan from the oven and transfer the shanks to a cutting board. 
When the shanks are cool enough to handle, pull the meat off the bones, dis-
carding any fat and connective tissue. Cut the meat into bite-size pieces. Stir 
the meat into the sauce and bring it back to a gentle simmer. Cook, stirring a 
few times, until the sauce has a medium-thick consistency and a rich, reddish 
color, 5 to 10 minutes. If the sauce seems too thick, stir in some or all of the 
remaining broth. Discard the bay leaf, adjust the seasoning with salt, and turn 
off the heat. —Biba Caggiano
PER 1/2 CUP: 230 CALORIES  |  13G PROTEIN  |  6G CARB   |  15G TOT AL FA T  |  3.5G SA T FA T  |   
9G MONO FA T  |  1.5G POL Y FA T  |  45MG CHOL  |  290 MG SODIUM  |  1G FIBER
P A S TA   127This ragù keeps for up 
to 5 days in the fridge 
and for up to 1 month 
in the freezer.Make Aheadbucatini in a spicy tomato sauce  
with crisped pancetta
S e r v e S  4
 1/2   lb. 1/4-inch-thick slices pancetta 
(about 6), cut into 1/4-inch dice
 3  Tbs. extra-virgin olive oil
 1  large red onion, halved and 
sliced thinly 
 1/4   tsp. crushed red pepper flakes 
   Kosher salt and freshly ground 
black pepper
 3/4   lb. dried bucatini (or thick 
spaghetti)
 1   28-oz. can peeled whole  
tomatoes, puréed in a blender 
 1  tsp. dried oregano 
 3/4   cup grated pecorino romanoBucatini is a thick spaghetti-like pasta with a hollow center like a straw. It 
nicely traps whatever sauce it’s paired with.
1. Put a large pot of salted water on to boil. 
2. In a large skillet over medium heat, sauté the pancetta in the oil, stirring 
often, until it’s crisp and browned, about 8 minutes. Transfer the pancetta to 
a plate lined with paper towels. Raise the heat to medium high, add the onion 
and pepper flakes, season with salt, and cook, stirring often, until the onion is 
soft and translucent, 6 to 7 minutes. 
3. Put the pasta in the water.
4. Add the puréed tomatoes to the skillet and cook to thicken the sauce 
slightly, about 5 minutes. Stir in the oregano and season generously with salt 
and pepper to taste. 
5. Finish cooking the pasta until it’s just tender, about 10 minutes total. Drain 
and add to the sauce. T oss well with the pancetta and 1/2 cup of the pecorino. 
Serve immediately, topped with a spoonful of the sauce from the bottom of 
the pan and a sprinkling of the remaining pecorino. —T ony Rosenfeld
PER SERVING: 620 CALORIES  |  31G PROTEIN  |  79G CA RB  |  20G TOT AL FA T  |  6G SA T FA T  |   
11G MONO FA T  |  2G POL Y FA T  |  40MG CHOL  |  1,86 0MG SODIUM  |  5G FIBER
128  P A S TA